







B.C. Reg. 495/92

O.C. 1854/92


Deposited December 18, 1992

effective January 1, 1993






This consolidation is current to August 29, 2023.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after August 29, 2023.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Petroleum and Natural Gas Act



Petroleum and Natural Gas Royalty and

Freehold Production Tax Regulation



[Last amended November 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 211/2022]






Definitions and interpretation




1

(1)


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

;



"administrator"

means the person appointed as the royalty administrator under section
73 (3) of the Act;



"amendment application"

means an application to amend a well permit under the

Oil and Gas Activities Act

;



"average daily natural gas production volume"

means, in relation to a well event in a producing month, the volume of
natural gas produced in the producing month from the well event,
expressed in m
3
, divided by the number of hours during which the well event produced
natural gas in the producing month and multiplied by 24;


"BPO lease"
means a right to produce petroleum or natural gas if




(a)

the right arose as a result of a Crown Petroleum and Natural Gas
Tenure Disposition Agreement dated May 19, 2004,




(b)

in section 1.1 of that agreement, the provisions comprising the 50%
Bonus Payment Option have been retained and the provisions comprising
the No Bonus Payment Option have been deleted, and




(c)

the right to produce petroleum or natural gas relates to lands that
are or form part of the Coal Lands as that term is defined in that
agreement;



"coalbed methane project"

means a well event or group of well events that is




(a)

designated as a special project under section 75 of the

Oil and Gas Activities Act

;




(b)

capable of producing natural gas from strata or a stratum containing
mainly coal;


"collector"
means the person appointed as the royalty collector under section 73
(3) of the Act;


"completed"
, in relation to a well, has the same meaning as in the Drilling and
Production Regulation;



"completion date"

means the date on which a well becomes a completed well;



"completion point"

means, in respect of a gas well event that




(a)

is in a vertical well and




(i)

has not been completed as an open hole, the bottom of the deepest
perforations in the gas well event, or




(ii)

has been completed as an open hole, the bottom of the last section of
casing in the gas well event, or




(b)

is in a horizontal well, the point in the wellbore referred to in
paragraph (a) of the definition of "horizontal well" at which the
angle of the wellbore first exceeds 80 degrees from vertical;



"concurrent production"

means gas produced from an oil well event where the oil well event is
part of an approved concurrent production scheme under section 97 of
the Act as it read immediately before the section was repealed or
concurrent production is authorized under the

Oil and Gas Activities Act

;



"conservation gas"

means natural gas produced from an oil well event where the marketable
gas is conserved but does not include gas produced from an oil well
event granted concurrent production status under section 97 of the Act
as it read immediately before the section was repealed or concurrent
production is authorized under the

Oil and Gas Activities Act

;



"contract carrier"

means a person who is the owner or operator of a pipeline that
transports oil or natural gas, or both, for more than one producer and
whose tariff has been approved by a public regulatory body having
jurisdiction over that person;



"Crown invoice"

means an invoice issued under section 9;


"Crown land"
has the same meaning as in the

Land Act

;



"deemed value"

means, for a volume of oil or natural gas by-products, the monetary
value based on the fixed unit selling price established by the
collector under section 7 (2);



"deep discovery well event"

means a gas well event that




(a)

is in a discovery well,




(b)

has a completion point that has a true vertical depth deeper than 4
000 metres,




(c)

is in a well that has a spud date after November 30, 2003,




(d)

is in a well that has a surface location at least 20 kilometres away
from the surface location of any well in a recognized pool of the same
formation, and




(e)

is not part of a coalbed methane project;



"deep re-entry well event"

means a gas well event that




(a)

is in a well that has been altered in accordance with an amendment
application approved by the commission before September 1, 2022,




(b)

has a completion point that has a true vertical depth deeper than
2 300 metres, and




(c)

is not part of a coalbed methane project;



"deep well depth"

means, for a well event,




(a)

if in a vertical well, the measured depth to the completion point, and




(b)

if in a horizontal well, the sum of




(i)

the measured depth to the completion point, and




(ii)

the product of the applicable horizontal length factor multiplied by
the positive difference between the total measured depth and the
measured depth to the completion point;



"deep well event"

means a well event referred to in subsection (5), (5.1) or (5.2);



"development well"

means a well or portion of a well that is classified as a development
well under section 2 of the Drilling and Production Regulation;



"discovery oil"

means oil produced from an oil well event that is completed in a new
pool discovery well after June 30, 1974;



"discovery well"

means a well designated as a discovery well under section 2 of the
Drilling and Production Regulation;



"Drilling and Production Regulation"

means the Drilling and Production Regulation under the

Oil and Gas Activities Act

;



"dry gas source"

means a reporting facility, other than a natural gas processing plant,
that produces natural gas that is not processed at a natural gas
processing plant before being sold as marketable gas;



"exploratory outpost well"

means a well or portion of a well that is classified as an exploratory
outpost under section 2 of the Drilling and Production Regulation;



"exploratory wildcat well"

means a well or portion of a well that is classified as an exploratory
wildcat well under section 2 of the Drilling and Production
Regulation;



"freehold conservation gas"

means conservation gas that is produced from freehold mineral lands;



"freehold marketable gas"

means marketable gas produced from freehold mineral lands;



"freehold mineral lands"

means lands where the petroleum and natural gas rights are not owned
by the government;



"freehold natural gas by-products"

means natural gas liquids, sulphur and substances other than
marketable gas recovered from natural gas produced from freehold
mineral lands;



"freehold natural gas liquids"

means ethane, propane, butanes, or pentanes plus and any other
condensates, or any other combination of them, recovered from natural
gas produced from freehold mineral lands;



"freehold non-conservation gas"

means non-conservation gas produced from freehold mineral lands;



"freehold oil"

means oil, other than heavy oil, produced from an oil well event or
allocated to a tract in a unitized operation if the oil well event or
tract is located on freehold mineral lands;



"freehold production tax"

means the freehold production tax under section 80 of the Act;



"freehold sulphur"

means sulphur recovered from natural gas produced from freehold
mineral lands;



"gas cost allowance"

means an allowance to a producer to offset the cost of a natural gas
processing plant or a natural gas sales line that is not within a net
profit royalty project ring fence, is owned and operated by the
producer and is used by the producer to process or deliver natural gas
that




(a)

the producer owns, produces and sells,




(b)

is owned by another producer who pays the owner of the processing
plant or natural gas sales line for its use, or




(c)

is delivered to a storage facility;



"gas well event"

means




(a)

all completions in a zone that are not within a net profit royalty
project, for a well that has a primary product of natural gas, or




(b)

all completions in zones that are not within a net profit royalty
project in a well that has a primary product of natural gas and from
which commingled production is permitted under the

Oil and Gas Activities Act

or the former Act, as that term is defined in section 116 (1) of the

Oil and Gas Activities Act

;



"goods and service costs"

means, in relation to a well, the costs incurred by the producer for
goods and services directly related to the drilling or completion of
the well;


"heavy oil"
means oil, produced from an oil well event, with a density of at least
890 kilograms per cubic metre;



"horizontal length factor"

, in relation to a gas well event, has the following meaning:




(a)

for a gas well event in a well that has a spud date of or before
August 31, 2009 and a measured depth to the completion point of
between 2 300 metres and 2 875 metres, the amount determined by the
following formula:





60 − 0.035 × (measured depth to completion point −
2 300)








100






(a.1)

for a gas well event in a well that has a spud date after August 31,
2009 and a measured depth to the completion point equal to or less
than 2 875 metres, the lesser of the following amounts:




(i)

1;




(ii)

the amount determined by the following formula:





60 − 0.035 × (measured depth to completion point −
2 300)








100






(b)

for a gas well event with a measured depth to the completion point
deeper than 2 875 metres, 0.40;



"horizontal well"

means a well that meets the following criteria:




(a)

a wellbore in the well is drilled at an angle of at least 80 degrees
from vertical, and, for the purposes of this paragraph, the wellbore
is deemed to be a line connecting the wellbore's initial point of
penetration into a productive zone to the wellbore's end point in that
productive zone;




(b)

the length of the wellbore referred to in paragraph (a) is at least
100 metres, measured from the wellbore's initial point of penetration
into the productive zone referred to in paragraph (a) to the
wellbore's end point in that productive zone;



"incremental oil"

means oil that the administrator considers would not have been
recovered without a new pressure maintenance scheme, improved pressure
maintenance scheme or other enhanced oil recovery scheme methods, but
does not include heavy oil;



"initial production period"

, in relation to a gas well event, means the period that




(a)

begins on the first day of the first producing month, and




(b)

ends on the last day of the producing month in which the gas well
event reaches 8 760 production hours;



"liquids price"

means, in relation to a disposition of natural gas liquids in a
producing month, the amount determined by the following formula:





(consideration − actual costs)








sales volume






where






"consideration"

means the consideration received or receivable by the producer
for the disposition of the natural gas liquids;






"actual costs"

means the actual costs, approved by the collector, that are
incurred by the producer for transporting and processing the
natural gas liquids from the point of production to the point of
sale;






"sales volume"

means the volume of natural gas liquids involved in the
disposition;






"m
3
"

means, in relation to the volume of a substance, one cubic metre of
the substance measured at 101.325 kPA and 15°C;



"marginal gas"

means non-conservation gas produced by a marginal well event;



"marginal well depth"

means,




(a)

for a well event in a vertical well, the true vertical depth of the
wellbore's intersection with the top of the pay of the well event, and




(b)

for a well event in a horizontal well, the total measured depth of the
well event;



"marginal well event"

means a well event referred to in subsection (4);



"marketable gas"

means natural gas that is available for sale for direct consumption as
a domestic, commercial or industrial fuel, or as an industrial raw
material, or is delivered to a storage facility, whether it occurs
naturally or results from the processing of natural gas;



"measured depth to the completion point"

, in relation to a gas well event, means the measured depth along the
wellbore from the intersection with the completion point of the well
event to the kelly bushing used in drilling the well;



"measured depth to top of pay"

, in relation to a well event, means the measured depth along the
wellbore from the intersection with the top of the pay of the well
event to the kelly bushing used in drilling the well;



"monthly allowable production"

means the product of the calculated daily gas and daily oil allowable
rate and 31 days;



"natural gas by-products"

means natural gas liquids, sulphur and substances other than
marketable gas, which are recovered from raw natural gas that has been
produced from a well event by processing or normal 2 phase field
separation;



"natural gas liquids"

means ethane, propane, butanes or pentanes plus and any other
condensates, or any combination of them, recovered from natural gas
that has been produced from a well event;



"natural gas processing plant"

means a plant for the extraction from natural gas of marketable gas
and natural gas by-products;


"NBPO lease"
means a right to produce petroleum or natural gas if




(a)

the right arose as a result of a Crown Petroleum and Natural Gas
Tenure Disposition Agreement dated May 19, 2004,




(b)

in section 1.1 of that agreement, the provisions comprising the No
Bonus Payment Option have been retained and the provisions comprising
the 50% Bonus Payment Option have been deleted, and




(c)

the right to produce petroleum or natural gas relates to lands that
are or form part of the Coal Lands as that term is defined in that
agreement;



"net profit royalty project"

has the meaning given to it in the Net Profit Royalty Regulation;



"net profit royalty well event"

has the meaning given to it in the Net Profit Royalty Regulation;


"new oil"
means




(a)

oil, other than heavy oil or third tier oil, produced from an oil well
event that




(i)

draws from an oil pool having on October 31, 1975 no completed well,
or




(ii)

is outside the outline, shown in each plat in Schedule A, of the
surface area of the oil pool named on the plat,




(b)

incremental oil produced from an oil well event other than incremental
oil that qualifies as third tier oil under paragraph (b) of the
definition of "third tier oil",




(c)

oil, produced from an oil well event, that received the new oil
reference price under the National Energy Program, or




(d)

oil produced from an oil well event that is completed within the
outline referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) if the oil well event




(i)

resumed production on or after January 1, 1981 and had not produced
oil for a period of at least 36 months immediately preceding that
date, and




(ii)

was not an injection, pressure maintenance or observation well event
during the period referred to in subparagraph (i), whether or not the
period was more than 36 months;



"non-conservation gas"

means natural gas produced from a well event other than conservation
gas;


"oil"
means petroleum as defined in the Act;



"oil well event"

means all completions in a zone for a well with a primary product of
oil other than completions in a zone that are within a net profit
royalty project;


"old oil"
means oil produced from an oil well event other than new oil, heavy
oil or third tier oil;



"operator of a reporting facility"

means the person who is identified as the operator of a reporting
facility in information provided to the collector;


"pay"
, in respect of a pool, means the portion of the pool that is
determined by the commission to be the pay;



"PMP exempt well event"

means a well event that is designated as a PMP exempt well event by
order of the administrator under section 2 (7);



"posted minimum price"

means, for each calendar month, a price, set by the administrator in
relation to a group of natural gas processing plants, dry gas sources
and net profit royalty projects under the authority of section 2 (4),
for marketable gas that becomes available for disposition during that
month from that group of natural gas processing plants, dry gas
sources and net profit royalty projects;



"price factor"

means the following:




(a)

for heavy oil, the factor that is determined by the formula






2.5 × (wellhead price − threshold price for heavy oil)



1 +






wellhead price






(b)

for third tier oil, the lesser of




(i)

the factor that is determined by the formula:






3.5 × (wellhead price − threshold price for third tier oil)



1 +






wellhead price



and



(ii)

a factor of 2;


"producer"
means




(a)

a holder of a location who markets or otherwise disposes of oil,
natural gas or both, that has been produced by




(i)

the holder of the location, or




(ii)

a person authorized to do so by the holder of the location, and




(b)

a person authorized by a holder of a location to produce and market or
otherwise dispose of, on the holder's behalf, oil, natural gas or
both;



"producer cost of service allowance"

, in relation to a well event and a producing month, means,




(a)

if the well event is part of a coalbed methane project, the amount
determined in accordance with the following formula:




A × B × C






where


A

means the weighted average royalty or tax rate in relation to
the well event and the producing month,



B

means the producer cost of service rate in relation to the
coalbed methane project to which natural gas produced by the
well event was delivered in the producing month, and



C

means the producer cost of service natural gas volume in
relation to the well event in the producing month, and







(b)

if the well event is not part of a coalbed methane project, the lesser
of




(i)

the amount determined in accordance with the following formula:




A × B × C






where


A

means the weighted average royalty or tax rate in relation to
the well event and the producing month,



B

means the producer cost of service rate in relation to the
reporting facility to which natural gas produced by the well
event was delivered in the producing month, and



C

means the producer cost of service natural gas volume in
relation to the well event and the producing month, and







(ii)

95% of the total gross natural gas royalty or tax determined for the
well event for the producing month under section 7 (7) (a);



"producer cost of service natural gas volume"

means, in relation to a well event in a producing month, the
producer's share of the volume of natural gas produced from the well
event in the producing month;



"producer cost of service rate"

, in relation to a producer, means a rate determined by the collector
using the methodology established by the administrator under section 2
(8.1), expressed as an amount per 1 000 m
3
, which rate may be used in the calculation of a producer cost of
service allowance to cover the producer's cost of




(a)

main field gathering, dehydration and field compression of
non-conservation gas,




(b)

conserving conservation gas,




(c)

processing natural gas for use as fuel in paragraphs (a) and (b), and




(d)

handling water produced from well events in a coalbed methane project;



"producer price"

means a price of natural gas determined by the administrator each
month for each producer in accordance with the method established by
order of the administrator under section 2 (5), as that price may be
amended from time to time under section 11 (2);



"producing month"

, in relation to a well event, means a calendar month in which any
quantity of oil, natural gas or water is produced from the well event;



"production hour"

, in relation to a gas well event, means an hour in which any quantity
of oil or natural gas is produced from the gas well event;



"project ring fence"

has the meaning given to it in the Net Profit Royalty Regulation;



"reactivated well event"

means




(a)

a marginal well event that




(i)

was suspended or abandoned on or before June 30, 2003, and




(ii)

after that date, commenced or recommenced producing, or




(b)

an ultramarginal well event that




(i)

was suspended or abandoned on or before December 31, 2005, and




(ii)

after that date, commenced or recommenced producing;



"re-entry date"

, in relation to a well, means the date selected as the re-entry date
for the well by the commission in an approval given to an amendment
application;



"reference price"

means,




(a)

for marketable gas other than gas produced from a PMP exempt well
event, the greater of




(i)

the producer price, and




(ii)

the posted minimum price that is, for the calendar month in which the
marketable gas becomes available for disposition, applicable to the
natural gas processing plant at which the marketable gas was
processed;




(b)

for marketable gas produced from a PMP exempt well event, the producer
price;




(c)

for natural gas liquids,




(i)

the liquids price, or




(ii)

if the collector has, under section 7 (2), fixed a unit selling price
for the royalty or tax share of the natural gas liquids disposed of in
a producing month, the deemed value of the natural gas liquids
disposed of in the producing month divided by their volume;




(d)

for sulphur,




(i)

the sulphur price, or




(ii)

if the collector has, under section 7 (2), fixed a unit selling price
for the royalty or tax share of the sulphur disposed of in a producing
month, the deemed value of the sulphur disposed of in the producing
month divided by its volume;



"reporting facility"

means a building, structure, installation, equipment or appurtenance
that is connected to or associated with the recovery, development,
production, storage, handling, processing, treatment or disposal of
oil, natural gas, natural gas by-products, water or other substances
that are produced from or injected into a well and, for certainty,
includes a battery, gathering system, natural gas processing plant,
meter station, pipeline, injection facility, terminal and treating
plant;



"revenue sharing agreement"

, when used in relation to gas, oil or royalties to which one of the
following agreements applies, means that agreement:




(a)

the agreement entitled "Petroleum and Natural Gas Revenue Sharing
Agreement" between




(i)

the Blueberry River Indian Band and the Members of the Blueberry River
Indian Band represented by its duly elected Chief and Councillors,




(ii)

the Doig River Indian Band and the Members of the Doig River Indian
Band represented by its duly elected Chief and Councillors, and




(iii)

Her Majesty the Queen in right of British Columbia represented by the
Minister of Aboriginal Affairs and the Minister of Energy, Mines and
Petroleum Resources, or




(b)

the agreement as defined in the
Fort Nelson Indian Reserve Minerals Revenue Sharing Act
;



"revenue sharing gas"

means natural gas produced from a well event the royalties from which
are to be shared under the terms of the revenue sharing agreement
applicable to that natural gas;



"revenue sharing oil"

means oil produced from an oil well event the royalties from which are
to be shared under the terms of the revenue sharing agreement
applicable to that oil;



"royalty for an unaccounted quantity"

means royalty payable to the government in respect of an unaccounted
quantity of oil, marketable gas or natural gas by-products, the amount
of which royalty is calculated under section 7.2;



"royalty share"

means,




(a)

in the case of oil produced from an oil well event,




(i)

if the oil is the subject matter of a unitization agreement under
which royalty is determined in relation to a tract according to
production volumes allocated to that tract under the agreement, the
volume of oil that is produced from the oil well event, during the
producing month in respect of which royalty share is calculated, that
is determined by adding A and B, where



A = the volume of old oil determined in accordance with the
following formula: A = V × RO × (1 − P),


B = the volume of new oil determined in accordance with the
following formula: B = V × RN × P,


V = the total volume of oil allocated to the tract for that
producing month under the unitization agreement,


RO = the royalty percentage rate set out in item 1 or 2, as
applicable, of section 5,


RN = the royalty percentage rate set out in item 3 or 4, as
applicable, of section 5,


P = the ratio, as determined by the administrator under
section 2, of new oil production from the unitized operation to the
total volume of oil production from the unitized operation, or




(ii)

if subparagraph (i) does not apply, the volume of oil that is produced
from the oil well event, during the producing month in respect of
which royalty share is calculated, that is determined by adding C, D,
E and H, where



C = the volume of old oil determined in accordance with the
following formula: C = V × RO × (1 − P),


D = the volume of new oil determined in accordance with the
following formula: D = V × RN × P,


E = the volume of third tier oil determined in accordance
with the following formula: E = V × RE,


H = the volume of heavy oil determined in accordance with
the following formula: H = V × RH,


V = the total volume of oil produced from the oil well event
during that producing month,


RO = the royalty percentage rate set out in item 1 or 2, as
applicable, of section 5,


RN = the royalty percentage rate set out in item 3 or 4, as
applicable, of section 5,


RE = the royalty percentage rate set out in item 4.1 or 4.2,
as applicable, of section 5,


RH = the royalty or tax percentage rate set out in item 7, 8
or 9, as applicable, of section 5,


P = the ratio, as determined by the administrator under
section 2, of new oil production from the oil well event to the total
volume of oil production from the oil well event,




(b)

in the case of a class of marketable gas produced in a producing month
from a well event, the producer's share of that marketable gas
multiplied by the royalty percentage rate under section 6 that is
applicable to the class of marketable gas, the producing month and the
well event, and




(c)

in the case of a class of natural gas by-products produced in a
producing month from a well event, the producer's share of those
natural gas by-products multiplied by the royalty percentage rate
under section 6 that is applicable to that class of natural gas
by-products;



"sales value"

means, in relation to a disposition of oil, the greater of




(a)

zero, and




(b)

the consideration, without deductions, that is received or receivable
by a producer for the disposition, or if the collector has, under
section 7 (2), fixed a unit selling price for the royalty or tax share
of the oil disposed of in a producing month, the deemed value of the
oil disposed of;



"select price"

means, for a class of gas, the price for that class of gas established
for each calendar year by order of the administrator;


"spud date"
, in relation to a well, means the date selected by the commission as
the date on which the ground was first penetrated for the purposes of
drilling the well;



"storage facility"

means any underground reservoir or surface facility that is capable of
storing natural gas;


"sulphur"
means market grade elemental sulphur which is obtained from processing
natural gas that has been produced from a well event;



"sulphur price"

means, in relation to a disposition of sulphur in a producing month,
the amount determined by the following formula:





(consideration − actual costs)








sales volume






where






"consideration"

means the consideration received or receivable by the producer
for the disposition of the sulphur;






"actual costs"

means the actual costs, approved by the collector, that are
incurred by the producer for transporting and processing the
sulphur from the point of production to the point of sale;






"sales volume"

means the volume of sulphur involved in the disposition;





"tariff"
means rates or charges that are approved by a public regulatory body
having jurisdiction over a contract carrier;


"tax"
means the freehold production tax under section 80 of the Act;


"tax share"
means,




(a)

in the case of a class of freehold oil, the volume of freehold oil of
that class that is determined by multiplying the volume of oil
produced from the oil well event by the tax rate under section 5 that
is applicable to the class of freehold oil,




(b)

in the case of a class of freehold marketable gas produced in a
producing month from a well event, the producer's share of that
freehold marketable gas multiplied by the tax percentage rate under
section 6 that is applicable to the class of freehold marketable gas,
the producing month and the well event, and




(c)

in the case of a class of freehold natural gas by-products produced in
a producing month from a well event, the producer's share of those
freehold natural gas by-products multiplied by the tax percentage rate
under section 6 that is applicable to that class of freehold natural
gas by-products;



"third tier oil"

means




(a)

oil, other than revenue sharing oil and heavy oil, produced from oil
well events that draw from an oil pool having, on June 1, 1998, no
completed well, or




(b)

oil produced from an oil well event that is incremental oil, other
than revenue sharing oil, that is derived from a pressure maintenance
scheme, or an enhanced oil recovery scheme, that was approved after
December 31, 1999 under section 100 of the Act as it read immediately
before its repeal or that is designated as a special project under
section 75 of the

Oil and Gas Activities Act

;



"threshold price"

means, for a class of oil, the price that is established, by order of
the administrator under section 2 (10), as the threshold price for
that class of oil;



"total measured depth"

, in relation to a well event, means the sum of the lengths of all of
the vertically oriented and horizontally oriented wellbores that
constitute the well event;



"true vertical depth"

means, for any point on the wellbore of a well, the distance between
the wellbore point and the point, directly above the wellbore point,
that is the same elevation as the kelly bushing used in drilling the
well;



"ultramarginal gas"

means non-conservation gas produced by an ultramarginal well event;



"ultramarginal well depth"

means,




(a)

for a well event in a vertical well, the true vertical depth of the
wellbore's intersection with the top of the pay of the well event, and




(b)

for a well event in a horizontal well,




(i)

if the total measured depth less the measured depth to top of pay is
less than 1 000 metres, the total measured depth, or




(ii)

if the total measured depth less the measured depth to top of pay is
equal to or greater than 1 000 metres, the amount determined by
adding




(A)

measured depth to top of pay plus 1 000, and




(B)

one half of the amount determined by subtracting the sum of the
measured depth to top of pay plus 1 000 from the total measured
depth;



"ultramarginal well event"

means a well event referred to in subsection (6);



"vertical well"

means any well that is not a horizontal well;



"weighted average royalty or tax rate"

means, in relation to a well event and producing month, the total
gross natural gas royalty or tax determined for the producer's share
of the natural gas produced from the well event for the producing
month under section 7 (7) (a) divided by the sum of




(a)

the producer's share of the marketable gas produced from the well
event in the producing month and made available for sale in that
month, multiplied by the reference price for the marketable gas,




(b)

the producer's share of the natural gas liquids produced from the well
event in the producing month multiplied by the reference price for the
natural gas liquids, and




(c)

the producer's share of the sulphur produced from the well event in
the producing month multiplied by the reference price for the sulphur;


"well event"
means a gas well event or an oil well event;



"well permit"

has the same meaning as in the Drilling and Production Regulation;



"wellhead price"

means, in relation to oil, the greater of




(a)

the average net value of that oil determined in accordance with
section 7 (3) (b), and




(b)

the threshold price.




(1.1)

Despite subsection (1), for the purposes of applying this regulation
to wells with a spud date after November 30, 2003 and before January
1, 2009, the following terms continue to have the meanings they had on
December 31, 2008:




(a)

deep discovery well event;




(b)

deep re-entry well event;




(c)

deep well depth;




(d)

deep well event.




(2) and (3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 73/2006, s. 2 (a).]




(4)

A well event is a marginal well event if




(a)

the well event is a gas well event,




(b)

the result of the following calculation is less than 23 m
3
for every metre of marginal well depth:




(TP/TPH) × 24






where




TP

means the total production from the well event in the following
applicable period:






(i) if the well event is not a reactivated well event, the
period of 12 consecutive calendar months that begins with the
calendar month in which the well event first commences
continuous production;






(ii) if the well event is a reactivated well event, the period
of 12 consecutive calendar months that begins with the calendar
month in which the reactivated well event commenced or
recommenced continuous production, and



TPH

means the total number of hours during which the well event
produced natural gas in that 12 calendar month period,







(c)

the 12 calendar month period referred to in paragraph (b) ends after
June 30, 2004,




(d)

the well event is in a well that has a spud date after May 31, 1998
and before September 1, 2022, and




(e)

the well event is not an ultramarginal well event and is not part of a
coalbed methane project.




(5)

In the case of a well that has a spud date of or before August 31,
2009, a well event is a deep well event if




(a)

the well event is a gas well event,




(b)

the well event, if in a horizontal well, has a completion point that
has a true vertical depth deeper than 2 300 metres,




(c)

the well event, if in a vertical well, has a completion point that has
a true vertical depth deeper than 2 500 metres,




(d)

the well event is not a deep re-entry well event, and




(e)

the well event is not part of a coalbed methane project.




(5.1)

In the case of a well that has a spud date after August 31, 2009 and
of or before March 31, 2014, a well event is a deep well event if




(a)

the well event is a gas well event,




(b)

the well event, if in a horizontal well, has a completion point that
has a true vertical depth deeper than 1 900 metres,




(c)

the well event, if in a vertical well, has a completion point that has
a true vertical depth deeper than 2 500 metres,




(d)

the well event is not a deep re-entry well event,




(e)

the well event is not part of a coalbed methane project, and




(f)

the well event is not an ultramarginal well event.




(5.2)

In the case of a well that has a spud date after March 31, 2014, a
well event is a deep well event in either of the following
circumstances:




(a)

if




(i)

the well event is a gas well event,




(ii)

the well event, if in a horizontal well, has a completion point that
has a true vertical depth deeper than 1 900 metres,




(iii)

the well event, if in a vertical well, has a completion point that has
a true vertical depth deeper than 2 500 metres,




(iv)

the well event is not a deep re-entry well event,




(v)

the well event is not part of a coalbed methane project, and




(vi)

the well event is in a well that has a spud date before September 1,
2022;




(b)

if




(i)

the well event is a gas well event,




(ii)

the well event is in a horizontal well and has




(A)

a completion point that has a true vertical depth equal to or less
than 1 900 metres, and




(B)

a deep well depth deeper than 2 500 metres,




(iii)

the well event is not part of a coalbed methane project, and




(iv)

the well event is in a well that has a spud date before September 1,
2022.




(6)

A well event is an ultramarginal well event if




(a)

the well event is a gas well event,




(b)

in the case of a well that has a spud date of or before March 31,
2014, the well event is either




(i)

in a vertical well and has a true vertical depth to the top of the pay
of the well event of less than 2 500 metres, or




(ii)

in a horizontal well and has a true vertical depth to the top of the
pay of the well event of less than 2 300 metres,




(b.1)

in the case of a well that has a spud date after March 31, 2014, the
well event is in a vertical well and has




(i)

a true vertical depth to the top of the pay of the well event of less
than 2 500 metres, and




(ii)

a completion point that has a true vertical depth equal to or less
than 2 500 metres,




(c)

one of the following applies to the well event:




(i)

the well event is in an exploratory wildcat well and the result of the
following calculation is less than 17 m
3
for every metre of ultramarginal well depth:




(TP/TPH) × 24






where


TP

means the total production from the well event in the following
applicable period:






(A) if the well event is not a reactivated well event, the
period of 12 consecutive calendar months that begins with the
calendar month in which the well event first commences
continuous production;






(B) if the well event is a reactivated well event, the period of
12 consecutive calendar months that begins with the calendar
month in which the reactivated well event commenced or
recommenced continuous production, and



TPH

means the total number of hours during which the well event
produced natural gas in that 12 calendar month period;







(ii)

the well event is in an exploratory outpost well or a development well
and the result of the following calculation is less than 11 m
3
for every metre of ultramarginal well depth:




(TP/TPH) × 24






where


TP

means the total production from the well event in the following
applicable period:






(A) if the well event is not a reactivated well event, the
period of 12 consecutive calendar months that begins with the
calendar month in which the well event first commences
continuous production;






(B) if the well event is a reactivated well event, the period of
12 consecutive calendar months that begins with the calendar
month in which the reactivated well event commenced or
recommenced continuous production, and



TPH

means the total number of hours during which the well event
produced natural gas in that 12 calendar month period,







(d)

the 12 calendar month period referred to in paragraph (c) (i) and (ii)
ends after January 31, 2007,




(e)

the well event is either




(i)

a reactivated well event with a re-entry date after December 31, 2005
in a well with a spud date after May 31, 1998 and before September 1,
2022, or




(ii)

in a well that has a spud date after December 31, 2005 and before
September 1, 2022, and




(f)

the well event is not part of a coalbed methane project.




(7)

Despite the definition of "producer cost of service allowance" in
subsection (1), in the case of a gas well event in a well that has a
spud date of or after September 1, 2022, the producer cost of service
allowance for the gas well event is zero for the initial production
period.


[am. B.C. Regs. 256/93; 367/93, s. 1; 21/98, s. 1; 180/98, s. 1;
18/99, s. 1; 218/99, s. 1; 456/99, s. 1; 10/2000; 50/2001, s. 1;
29/2002, s. 1; 233/2003; 250/2003, s. 1; 302/2003, s. 1; 442/2003, s.
1; 178/2004, s. 1; 138/2005, s. 1; 191/2005, Sch. 1, s. 1; 73/2006,
ss. 1 and 2; 329/2006, s. (a); 99/2008, s. 1; 17/2009, s. 1; 193/2009,
s. 1; 269/2010, Sch. s. 14; 91/2012, s. (a); 30/2014, s. 1; 194/2018,
Sch. 1, s. 1; 117/2022, ss. 1 and 2.]






Powers of administrator and collector




2

(1)


All calculations required under this regulation shall be carried to
the number of decimal places as designated by the collector.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 21/98, s. 2.]




(3)

The administrator may determine the ratio referred to in paragraph (a)
(i) or (ii) of the definition of "royalty share" in section 1 by
delivering written notice of the ratio to one of the producers of the
oil to which the ratio applies.




(4)

For the purpose of determining posted minimum prices, the
administrator may, by order,




(a)

designate one or more groups of natural gas processing plants, dry gas
sources and net profit royalty projects, and




(b)

include as members of any group designated under paragraph (a) any one
or more of natural gas processing plants, dry gas sources and net
profit royalty projects.




(5)

For the purpose of determining the producer price in relation to
natural gas, the administrator may, by order, establish the method by
which producer prices are to be determined.




(6)

The method established under subsection (5) may comprise or include
calculations involving one or more components, which components may be
identified or determined




(a)

in accordance with a method set out in the order, or




(b)

by the administrator, acting reasonably.




(7)

The administrator may, by order, designate as a PMP exempt well event
any well event that, before the coming into force of this subsection,
produced natural gas that had an H
2
S content of at least 10%.




(8)

The collector may order that a producer receive a gas cost allowance
or a producer cost of service allowance, or both.




(8.1)

For the purpose of the order in subsection (8), the administrator may
establish the methods by which rates used in the calculation of
producer cost of service allowances or rates used in the calculation
of gas cost allowances may be determined.




(8.2)

If the administrator establishes one or more methods under subsection
(8.1), the collector is to determine annual producer cost of service
rates and gas cost allowance rates using the applicable methodology
established by the administrator.




(9)

By order, the administrator may, for each calendar year, establish a
select price for each class of gas.




(10)

The administrator may, by order, establish, for each class of oil, a
threshold price for that class of oil.




(11)

The collector may review the production history of any marginal well
event or ultramarginal well event and the operator of the well event
must, on request, provide to the collector all documents within the
power or control of the operator that relate to the matters that are
or might have been included or reflected in that production history.




(12)

If the collector believes that the operator limited the production of
a well event for the primary purpose of having the well event qualify
as a marginal well event or an ultramarginal well event, the collector
may disqualify that well event from qualifying for a royalty rate
reduction under section 6 (1.3) (b) or (c).




(13)

The collector may apply the well depth deduction amount determined for
a producer in relation to a well under section 7 (7) (c) to the
producer's interest in any one or more deep well events or deep
re-entry well events in that well.




(14)

The collector may apply the deep re-entry deduction amount determined
for a producer in relation to a well under section 7 (7) (d) to the
producer's interest in any one or more deep well events or deep
re-entry well events in that well.


[am. B.C. Regs. 21/98, s. 2; 180/98, s. 2; 218/99,
s. 2; 456/99, s. 2; 50/2001, s. 2; 250/2003, s. 2;
302/2003, ss. 2 and 3; 191/2005, Sch. 1, s. 2; 73/2006, s. 3;
99/2008, s. 2.]






Royalty and tax share




3

(1)


The collector must designate the applicable class of oil, natural gas
or natural gas by-products for the purposes of calculating a royalty
share and tax share.




(2)

The first sale of oil, natural gas or natural gas by-products shall
include the royalty share and tax share, except where natural gas that
has never been sold is delivered to a storage facility, in which case
the delivered gas includes the royalty share and tax share.




(3)

Notwithstanding subsection (2), where the administrator gives written
notification to a producer




(a)

of the government's intention to take the royalty share or the tax
share, and




(b)

of the government's requirement that the producer deliver the royalty
share or the tax share to a person named in the notification


the producer shall deliver the royalty share or tax share in
accordance with the notification and the delivery is in lieu of the
payment referred to in section 4.


[am. B.C. Regs. 302/2003, s. 2; 73/2006, s. 4.]






Royalty and tax payment




4

(0.1)


In this section:



"greenhouse gas"

has the same meaning as in section 1 of the

Greenhouse Gas Reduction Targets Act

;



"pipeline company"

means a person who owns, constructs or operates a pipeline.




(1)

A person to whom Crown invoices are issued must, by the end of the
calendar month in which the Crown invoices are issued, pay to the
government the total of the invoiced amounts in one of the following
manners:




(a)

by an electronic method specified by the collector;




(b)

by a money order or cheque mailed to the government at an address
specified by the collector.




(2)

A payment of an amount to the government under subsection (1) is
deemed not to be paid to the government until,




(a)

if the payment is made directly to the government by an electronic
method, the day of receipt by the government,




(b)

if the payment is made to a savings institution by an electronic
method, the day recorded as the day of receipt by the savings
institution, or




(c)

if the payment is mailed to the government, the day of receipt by the
government.




(2.1)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 194/2018, Sch. 1, s. 2 (a).]




(2.2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 191/2005, Sch. 2, s. 1.]




(2.3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 194/2018, Sch. 1, s. 2 (a).]




(3)

A producer may deduct an overpayment in accordance with section 9 (7).




(4)

In addition to any deduction allowed under subsection (3), a producer
may deduct a summer drilling deduction amount determined under
subsection (5) in respect of a well if




(a)

the producer has an interest in the well at the time the well is
completed, and




(b)

the well has a spud date after June 30, 2003 and before December 1,
2003, or, in any subsequent year up to 2012, after March 31 of that
year and before December 1 of that year,




(c)

the same drilling rig drills the well from the spud date of the well
until the well reaches its final total measured depth, or if, in the
opinion of the collector, the same drilling rig is incapable of
drilling the well for the whole of that period due to damage, 2 or
more drilling rigs drill the well from the spud date of the well until
the well reaches its final total measured depth,




(c.1)

the well does not have a completion in a zone that is within a net
profit royalty project, and




(d)

the producer files a report for the summer drilling credit in
accordance with section 8 (1) (r).




(5)

The summer drilling deduction amount is, for each well referred to in
subsection (4), the producer's proportionate interest in the well
multiplied by the lesser of the following:




(a)

10% of the goods and service costs attributable to the well;




(b)

$100 000.




(6)

In addition to any deductions allowed under subsections (3) and (4), a
producer may deduct




(a)

an infrastructure charge deduction amount if and to the extent that
that deduction amount is available to the producer under subsections
(7) and (8), and




(b)

a project deduction amount if and to the extent that that deduction
amount is available to the producer under subsections (10) and (13).




(7)

Subsection (8) applies to a producer if




(a)

the producer enters into an agreement with the minister or the BC
Transportation Financing Authority under which the producer agrees,
for the purpose of providing cost recovery for the use of bridges,
roads, rails, trails, utilities or other structures or works, to pay
specified charges for specified activities in a specified area,




(b)

the producer is obliged to pay charges or tolls established for the
purpose referred to in paragraph (a) under Part 3 of the

Transportation Act

, or




(c)

the producer is obliged to pay tolls prescribed for the purpose
referred to in paragraph (a) under the

Ministry of Energy and Mines Act

.




(8)

The infrastructure charge deduction amount available to a producer
referred to in subsection (7) is 50% of so many of the charges and
tolls referred to in that subsection as the administrator is satisfied




(a)

represent cost recovery for the use of bridges, roads, rails, trails,
utilities or other structures or works, and




(b)

have been paid by the producer.




(9)

For the purposes of subsection (10), a producer may notify the
administrator, in writing, that the producer intends to undertake a
project to




(a)

construct or upgrade pipelines, bridges, roads, rails or trails in
British Columbia in support of petroleum or natural gas exploration or
development in British Columbia, or




(b)

do one or more of the following in respect of an oil and gas activity
in British Columbia:




(i)

avoid, reduce or sequester greenhouse gas emissions;




(ii)

avoid or reduce an adverse effect on water quality or quantity or the
timing of water flow;




(iii)

avoid or reduce an adverse effect on the environment.




(9.1) and (9.2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 192/2016, s. 1 (c).]




(10)

If the administrator receives a notice under subsection (9), the
administrator may enter into an agreement with the producer that




(a)

entitles the producer to deduct, from the royalty or tax otherwise
payable by the producer under the Act, a portion of the costs
attributable to that project in the form of a project deduction amount
determined in accordance with subsections (11) and (15),




(b)

for the purposes of paragraph (a), identifies the steps that
constitute the project and specifies




(i)

what constitutes the completion of each step of the project,




(ii)

the estimated completion cost of each step of the project, and




(iii)

the estimated completion cost of the project, and




(c)

for the purposes of paragraph (a), specifies the circumstances that
must exist or the conditions that must be met before the project
deduction amount, or a portion of a project deduction amount, may be
deducted.




(11)

Subject to subsection (15), the project deduction amount available,
for each of the specified steps of a project, to a producer who has
entered into an agreement for that project under subsection (10) is up
to 50% of the lesser of the estimated completion cost of that step and
the amount spent by the producer to complete that step, if the
administrator is satisfied that




(a)

the step has been completed in the manner and to the extent required
by the agreement,




(b)

the producer intends to complete the project,




(c)

the completion cost for which the deduction amount is calculated has
been paid by the producer, and




(d)

the circumstances or conditions referred to in subsection (10) (c)
exist or have been met.




(12)

For the purposes of subsection (13), a pipeline company may notify the
administrator, in writing, that the pipeline company intends to
undertake a project, in a contractual arrangement with one or more
producers, to




(a)

construct or upgrade pipelines in British Columbia in support of
petroleum or natural gas exploration or development in British
Columbia, or




(b)

do one or more of the following in respect of an oil and gas activity
in British Columbia:




(i)

avoid, reduce or sequester greenhouse gas emissions;




(ii)

avoid or reduce an adverse effect on water quality or quantity or the
timing of water flow;




(iii)

avoid or reduce an adverse effect on the environment.




(13)

If the administrator receives a notice under subsection (12), the
administrator may enter into an agreement with the parties to the
contractual arrangement that




(a)

entitles the producer or producers to deduct, from the royalty or tax
otherwise payable by the producer or producers under the Act, a
portion of the costs attributable to that project in the form of a
project deduction amount determined in accordance with subsections
(14) and (15),




(b)

for the purposes of paragraph (a), identifies the steps that
constitute the project and specifies




(i)

what constitutes the completion of each step of the project,




(ii)

the estimated completion cost of each step of the project, and




(iii)

the estimated completion cost of the project, and




(c)

for the purposes of paragraph (a), specifies the circumstances that
must exist or the conditions that must be met before the project
deduction amount, or a portion of a project deduction amount, may be
deducted.




(14)

Subject to subsection (15), the project deduction amount available,
for each of the specified steps of the project, to producer or
producers who have entered into an agreement for that project under
subsection (13), is up to 50% of the lesser of the estimated
completion cost of that step and the amount spent by the parties to
the contractual arrangement to complete that step, if the
administrator is satisfied that




(a)

the step has been completed in the manner and to the extent required
by the agreement,




(b)

the parties to the contractual arrangement intend to complete the
project,




(c)

the completion cost for which the deduction amount is calculated has
been paid by the parties to the contractual arrangement, and




(d)

the circumstances or conditions referred to in subsection (13) (c)
exist or have been met.




(15)

The total amount of project deduction amounts that may be deducted
from the amount of royalty or tax otherwise payable by a producer
under the Act must not exceed 50% of the lesser of




(a)

the estimated completion cost of the project, and




(b)

the amount spent by the producer or the parties to the contractual
arrangement, as the case may be, to complete the project.




(16)

For the purposes of subsection (11) (d) or (14) (d), as applicable,
the administrator may take any steps that are, in the opinion of the
administrator, necessary to determine that the circumstances or
conditions referred to in those subsections exist or have been met, as
the case may be.


[am. B.C. Regs. 21/98, s. 3; 50/2001, s. 3; 250/2003, s. 3; 442/2003,
s. 2; 546/2004, App. s. 24; 191/2005, Sch. 2, s. 1;
317/2005; 73/2006, s. 5; 35/2008; 99/2008, s. 3; 128/2013, s. 1;
192/2016, s. 1; 194/2018, Sch. 1, s. 2.]






Oil royalty and tax rates




5

(1)


In Column 2 of each item in subsection (1.1),
"PRODUCTION"
means, in relation to an oil well event during a month, the total
volume of all oil of every class produced from the oil well event in
the month.




(1.1)

The royalty or tax percentage rate specified in Column 2 for an item
applies to the class of oil specified in Column 1 for the item.





Item 1



Column 1
Column 2



Old oil produced in a volume not exceeding 95 m
3
during the month in respect of which royalty is calculated

(a) from an oil well event, or

(b) in accordance with the terms of a unitization agreement


(PRODUCTION)
2
× 100

(792 × PRODUCTION)








Item 2



Column 1
Column 2



Old oil produced in a volume exceeding 95 m
3
during the month in respect of which royalty is calculated

(a) from an oil well event, or

(b) in accordance with the terms of a unitization agreement


(11.4 + 0.4(PRODUCTION − 95)) × 100

PRODUCTION








Item 3



Column 1
Column 2



New oil produced in a volume not exceeding 159 m
3
during the month in respect of which royalty is calculated

(a) from an oil well event, or

(b) in accordance with the terms of a unitization agreement


(PRODUCTION)
2
× 100

(1058 × PRODUCTION)








Item 4



Column 1
Column 2



New oil produced in a volume exceeding 159 m
3
during the month in respect of which royalty is calculated

(a) from an oil well event, or

(b) in accordance with the terms of a unitization agreement


(23.9 + 0.3(PRODUCTION − 159))  × 100

PRODUCTION








Item 4.1



Column 1
Column 2



Third tier oil produced from an oil well event in a volume not
exceeding 159 m
3

during the month in respect of which royalty is calculated


PRICE FACTOR × PRODUCTION

26.45








Item 4.2



Column 1
Column 2



Third tier oil produced from an oil well event in a volume
exceeding 159 m
3

during the month in respect of which royalty is calculated


PRICE FACTOR × [956 + 12(PRODUCTION − 159)]

PRODUCTION








Item 5



Column 1
Column 2



Freehold oil produced in a volume not exceeding 159 m
3
during the month in respect of which royalty is calculated

(a) from an oil well event, or

(b) in accordance with the terms of a unitization agreement

0.06 × PRODUCTION







Item 6



Column 1
Column 2



Freehold oil produced in a volume exceeding 159 m
3
during the month in respect of which royalty is calculated

(a) from an oil well event, or

(b) in accordance with the terms of a unitization agreement


1575 + 20(PRODUCTION − 159)

PRODUCTION








Item 7



Column 1
Column 2



Heavy oil produced from an oil well event in a volume not
exceeding 20 m
3
during the month in respect of which royalty is calculated

0







Item 8



Column 1
Column 2



Heavy oil produced from an oil well event in a volume exceeding
20 m
3

but not exceeding 200 m
3
during the month in respect of which royalty is calculated


PRICE FACTOR × (PRODUCTION − 20)
2

24 × PRODUCTION








Item 9



Column 1
Column 2



Heavy oil produced from an oil well event in a volume exceeding
200 m
3

during the month in respect of which royalty is calculated


PRICE FACTOR × ((PRODUCTION − 200) × 11 + 1350)

PRODUCTION







(2)

Upon application, the collector may approve an exemption from payment
of royalty or tax to the extent specified in Column 2 for an item as
it applies to the category of oil specified in Column 1 for the item.





Item 1



Column 1
Column 2


Discovery oil

Exempt from payment for the first 36 producing months








Item 2



Column 1
Column 2



Oil produced from an oil well event that, in the opinion of the
collector, was lost without fault on the part of the producer
and for which the producer received no compensation


Exempt from payment







(3)

If oil was or is classified as new oil on or after January 1, 1978 and
would be classified as old oil if part (c) of the definition of new
oil in section 1 is not applicable to it, an exemption is granted from
the obligation to pay royalty on that oil at a royalty rate in excess
of the royalty rate applicable to new oil.




(4)

The royalty or tax exemption periods approved under subsection (2) are
subject to a maximum exempt production equal to the lesser of




(a)

the monthly allowable production of oil multiplied by the number of
royalty exempt producing months, and




(b)

11 450 cubic metres of oil.




(5)

If a new pool discovery well is converted into an injection well as
part of a pressure maintenance technique designated under section 75
of the

Oil and Gas Activities Act

prior to the oil well producing its full royalty holiday entitlement
under subsection (4), the collector, on application, may approve a
transfer of the unused portion of the royalty holiday entitlement to
another oil well producing from the same pool.


[am. B.C. Regs. 367/93, s. 2; 40/97; 180/98, s. 3; 218/99, ss. 3
and 4; 456/99, s. 3; 50/2001, s. 4; 302/2003, s. 2; 73/2006, s.
6; 99/2008, s. 4; 269/2010, Sch. s. 15.]






Natural gas and natural gas by-products royalty and tax rates




6

(1)


Subject to subsections (1.1), (1.2), (1.21) and (1.3), the royalty or
tax percentage rate specified in Column 2 for an item applies to the
class of natural gas or natural gas by-products specified in Column 1
for the item but, despite the foregoing, the royalty or tax percentage
rate must not be less than




(a)

15% for Item 1, 9% for Item 1.1, 12% for Item 1.2, 8% for Item 2, 9%
for Item 3 and 5% for Item 4, and must not be more than 27% for Items
1.1 and 1.2, and




(b)

for marketable gas produced under the authority of a NBPO lease, the
greater of




(i)

6%, and




(ii)

the rate calculated under paragraph (a) after the application of
section 6 (1.3) of this regulation.





Item 1



Column 1
Column 2



Non-conservation gas that is

(a) produced from well events in a well having a spud date
before June 1, 1998, or

(b) revenue sharing gas


750 + 25 (REFERENCE PRICE − 50)

REFERENCE PRICE








Item 1.1



Column 1
Column 2



Non-conservation gas, marginal gas and ultramarginal gas, other
than revenue sharing gas, produced from well events

(a) for which the entire spacing area is

(i) in a lease that was disposed of under section 71 of the
Act after May 31, 1998, or

(ii) in a lease that was issued from a permit or license that
was disposed of under section 71 of the Act after
May 31, 1998, and

(b) which have a completion date not more than 60 months after
the disposition date of the lease in paragraph (a) (i) or the
disposition date of the permit or license in paragraph (a) (ii),
as the case may be


9 × SP + 40(RP − SP)

RP



where

RP = REFERENCE PRICE

SP = SELECT PRICE for

the calendar year in which

the month of production occurs









Item 1.2



Column 1
Column 2



Non-conservation gas, marginal gas and ultramarginal gas not
described in Item 1 or 1.1


12 × SP + 40(RP − SP)


RP



where

RP = REFERENCE PRICE

SP = SELECT PRICE for

the calendar year in which

the month of production occurs









Item 2



Column 1
Column 2


Conservation gas

400 + 15(REFERENCE PRICE − 50)


REFERENCE PRICE








Item 3



Column 1
Column 2


Freehold non-conservation gas

460 + 15(REFERENCE PRICE − 50)


REFERENCE PRICE








Item 4



Column 1
Column 2


Freehold conservation gas

245 + 9(REFERENCE PRICE − 50)


REFERENCE PRICE








Item 5



Column 1
Column 2


Natural gas liquids
20







Item 6



Column 1
Column 2


Freehold natural gas liquids
12.25







Item 7



Column 1
Column 2


Sulphur
16.667







Item 8



Column 1
Column 2


Freehold sulphur
10.25






(1.1)

The royalty percentage rate that is, under subsection (1), applicable
to a class of marketable gas produced in a producing month from a well
event may be reduced by a reduction factor determined under subsection
(1.2) or (1.3) (a), (b) and (c), multiplied by the royalty percentage
rate determined under Item 1, 1.1, 1.2 or 3 in subsection (1) for the
class of marketable gas produced from the well event.




(1.2)

There may be determined for a well event described in subsection
(1.21) a reduction factor in accordance with the following formula:








(5000 − S)




2











5000







where





S is equal to the lesser of the average daily natural gas
production volume for the well event in the producing month and
5 000.







(1.21)

For the purposes of subsection (1.2), a well event must be a well
event that




(a)

is in a well that has a spud date before September 1, 2022,




(b)

is not a marginal well event or an ultramarginal well event, and




(c)

is not part of a coalbed methane project.




(1.3)

A reduction factor may be determined for a well event in relation to a
producing month in accordance with the following applicable formula:




(a)

if the well event is part of a coalbed methane project, the reduction
factor may be determined in accordance with the following formula:








(17 000 − S)




2











17 000







where





S is equal to the lesser of the average daily natural gas
production volume for the well event in the producing month and
17 000;







(b)

if the well event is a marginal well event, the reduction factor may
be determined in accordance with the following formula:








(25 000 − S)




2











25 000







where





S is equal to the lesser of the average daily natural gas
production volume for the marginal well event in the producing
month and 25 000;







(c)

if the well event is an ultramarginal well event, the reduction factor
may be determined in accordance with the following formula:








(60 000 − S)




1.5











60 000







where





S  is equal to the lesser of the average daily natural
gas production volume for the ultramarginal well event in the
producing month and 60 000.







(1.4)

Despite subsection (1), if natural gas that is of a class referred to
in Column 1 of item 1.1, 1.2 or 3 in subsection (1) is produced from a
gas well event described in subsection (1.5), the royalty or tax
percentage rate specified in Column 2 of that item is 2% for the 12
calendar months beginning with the month in which the well event first
commenced continuous production.




(1.5)

In order to be eligible for the royalty or tax percentage rate
referred to in subsection (1.4), a gas well event must be a gas well
event that




(a)

is in a well that has a spud date after August 31, 2009 and before
July 1, 2010,




(b)

first commences continuous production before December 31, 2010, and




(c)

is not part of a coalbed methane project.




(1.6)

Subsections (1.2) and (1.3) (b) and (c) do not apply with respect to a
gas well event described in subsection (1.5) until the end of 12
calendar months after the month in which the well event first
commenced continuous production.




(1.7)

In the case of a gas well event in a well that has a spud date of or
after September 1, 2022,




(a)

despite subsection (1), the royalty or tax percentage rate for natural
gas and natural gas by-products produced from the gas well event is 5%
for the initial production period, and




(b)

subsection (1.3) (a) does not apply in relation to the gas well event
until the initial production period has ended.




(2)

Upon application, the collector may approve an exemption from payment
of royalty or tax to the extent specified in Column 2 for an item as
it applies to the category of natural gas or natural gas by-products
specified in Column 1 for the item.





Item 1



Column 1
Column 2



Natural gas or natural gas by-products that, in the opinion of
the collector, were lost without fault on the part of the
producer and for which the producer received no compensation.


Exempt from payment








Item 2



Column 1
Column 2



Natural gas or natural gas by-products used for oil and natural
gas production, for drilling purposes or for injection into the
formation from which they were produced.


Exempt from payment








Item 3



Column 1
Column 2



Natural gas produced from a deep discovery well event that is in
a well having a spud date after November 30, 2003 and before
September 1, 2022.


Exempt from payment for the first 36 producing months.







(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 442/2003, s. 3 (f).]




(4)

The volume of natural gas that may be exempt from payment under Item 3
must not exceed 283 000 000 m
3
.




(5)

The royalty and tax exemption for any natural gas by-products produced
from a gas well event terminates at the same time as the exemption of
natural gas.




(6)

The royalty or tax percentage rate specified in subsection (1), (1.4)
or (1.7), as the case may be, and the exemption from royalty and tax
payable specified in subsection (2), apply to the persons or class of
persons who are producers of British Columbia natural gas and whose
gas or a portion of whose gas is processed outside of British
Columbia.


[am. B.C. Regs. 180/98, s. 4; 18/99, s. 2; 50/2001, s. 5; 29/2002, s.
2; 112/2002; 250/2003, s. 4; 302/2003, s. 2; 442/2003, s. 3; 178/2004,
s. 2; 138/2005, s. 2; 73/2006, s. 7; 329/2006, s. (b); 99/2008, s. 5;
193/2009, s. 2; 91/2012, s. (b); 117/2022, s. 3.]






Royalty and tax calculations




7

(0.1)


In this section:



"minimum royalty amount"

means the sum of the following:




(a)

the specified percentage of the volume of marketable gas made
available for sale in the producing month from a well event multiplied
by the reference price for that marketable gas;




(b)

the specified percentage of the volume of natural gas liquids produced
from a well event in the producing month multiplied by the reference
price for those natural gas liquids;




(c)

the specified percentage of the volume of sulphur produced from a well
event in the producing month multiplied by the reference price for
that sulphur;



"specified percentage"

means




(a)

6%, in the case of a deep well event under section 1 (5.2) (b), and




(b)

3%, in any other case.




(0.2)

Subsection (5) (c) (iii) and (iv) and (d) (iii) and (iv) applies only
to producing months after March 2013.




(1)

The royalty and tax share shall be sold under section 3 (2) at the
following price:




(a)

for oil, the actual unit selling price;




(b)

for natural gas, the reference price of that natural gas;




(c)

for natural gas by-products, the actual unit selling price.




(2)

If




(a)

there is no actual unit selling price for the oil or natural gas
by-products referred to in subsection (1) (a) or (c), or




(b)

the actual unit selling price is, in the opinion of the collector,
less than the fair market value,


the collector shall fix a unit selling price for the royalty or tax
share at a level not exceeding the highest unit selling price received
by any producer during the month in which the sale takes place, and
the royalty or tax share is deemed to have been sold at the unit
selling price fixed by the collector.




(3)

Subject to subsection (3.1), for the purposes of determining the
amount of royalty and tax payable by a producer to the government for
oil, the collector shall




(a)

deduct from the sales value the costs incurred by the producer for




(i)

transporting oil by truck or through a producer-owned sales line, and




(ii)

tariffs charged by a contract carrier for transporting oil,


except where the transportation or tariff charge was a factor used in
establishing the sales value of the oil,




(b)

calculate the average net value by dividing the amount determined in
paragraph (a) by the volume of oil sold,




(c)

calculate the gross oil royalty or tax payable by multiplying the
average net value by the royalty or tax share, and




(d)

calculate the net oil royalty or tax payable by deducting from the
gross oil royalty or tax payable the value of the royalty or tax share
exempt from payment.




(3.1)

The amount of royalty and tax payable to the government for oil
produced under the authority of a BPO lease is the net oil royalty or
tax calculated in respect of that oil under subsection (3) multiplied
by 75%.




(4)

The collector may disallow a claim for costs under subsection (3) (a)
where the claim cannot be substantiated.




(5)

Subject to subsection (5.1), the amount of royalty or tax payable to
the government for natural gas in relation to a well event and
producing month is the total gross natural gas royalty or tax
determined under subsection (7) (a), or, for natural gas produced
under the authority of a BPO lease, 75% of the total gross natural gas
royalty or tax determined under subsection (7) (a), minus




(a)

the producer cost of service allowance, or, for natural gas produced
under the authority of a BPO lease, 75% of the producer cost of
service allowance,




(b)

the royalty or tax exempt value determined under subsection (7) (b),




(c)

subject to subsections (8) and (10), if the royalty or tax is payable
in relation to a deep well event that is located in a well that has a
spud date after November 30, 2003, and if the difference obtained by
reducing the amount of the well depth deduction amount determined
under subsection (7) (c) by the total of all previous deductions made
under this paragraph is positive, the lesser of




(i)

the portion of the well depth deduction amount determined under
subsection (7) (c) that, when added to the amounts referred to in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection, reduces to zero the total
gross natural gas royalty or tax determined under subsection (7) (a),




(ii)

the difference obtained by reducing the amount of the well depth
deduction amount determined under subsection (7) (c) by the total of
all previous deductions made under subsection (5) (c),




(iii)

the positive difference obtained by reducing the amount of the well
depth deduction amount determined under subparagraph (i) of this
paragraph by the minimum royalty amount, and




(iv)

zero, if the difference obtained by reducing the amount of the well
depth deduction amount determined under subparagraph (i) of this
paragraph by the minimum royalty amount is equal to or less than zero,
and




(d)

subject to subsections (9) and (10), if the royalty or tax payable in
relation to a deep re-entry well event that is located in a well that
has a re-entry date after November 30, 2003, and if the difference
obtained by reducing the amount of the well depth deduction amount
determined under subsection (7) (c) by the total of all previous
deductions made under subsection (5) (c) is positive, the lesser of




(i)

that portion of the deep re-entry incremental deduction amount
determined under subsection (7) (d) that, when added to the amounts
referred to in paragraphs (a) to (c) of this subsection, reduces to
zero the total gross natural gas royalty or tax determined under
subsection (7) (a),




(ii)

the difference obtained by reducing the amount of the deep re-entry
incremental deduction amount determined under subsection (7) (d) by
the total of all previous deductions made under subsection (5) (d),




(iii)

the positive difference obtained by reducing the amount of the deep
re-entry incremental deduction amount determined under subparagraph
(i) of this paragraph by the minimum royalty amount, and




(iv)

zero, if the difference obtained by reducing the amount of the deep
re-entry incremental deduction amount determined under subparagraph
(i) of this paragraph by the minimum royalty amount is equal to or
less than zero.




(5.1)

For well events in a coalbed methane project, the amount of royalty or
tax payable to the government for natural gas in relation to a
producing month is the sum of the amounts determined for that
producing month under subsection (5) for each well event in the
coalbed methane project less the lesser of




(a)

the balance in the producer's coalbed methane producer cost of service
bank referred to in section 7.1 for the coalbed methane project at the
end of the immediately preceding producing month, and




(b)

the portion of that balance that is necessary to reduce to zero the
royalty or tax payable to the government under this subsection for all
well events in the coalbed methane project.




(6)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 21/98, s. 4.]




(7)

For the purpose of subsection (5),




(a)

the total gross natural gas royalty or tax payable in relation to a
well event and producing month means the sum of




(i)

the royalty share or tax share, as the case may be, of marketable gas
made available for sale in the producing month from the well event
multiplied by the reference price for that marketable gas,




(ii)

the royalty share or tax share, as the case may be, of natural gas
liquids sold from the well event in the producing month multiplied by
the reference price for the natural gas liquids, and




(iii)

the royalty share or tax share, as the case may be, of sulphur sold
from the well event in the producing month multiplied by the reference
price for the sulphur,




(b)

the royalty or tax exempt value in relation to a well event and
producing month means the amount determined by the following formula:




PVEP







×
(TGNGRT − PCSA)


TPV








where


PVEP

means the production volume exempt from payment under Item 3 of
section 6 (2) for the well event and producing month;



TPV

means the total production volume attributable to the well event
in the producing month;



TGNGRT

means the total gross natural gas royalty or tax determined for
the well event and the producing month under paragraph (a);



PCSA

means the applicable producer cost of service allowance, and







(c)

the well depth deduction amount means, for a producer with interests
in one or both of deep well events, and deep re-entry well events, in
a single well, the amount determined by the following formula:




(CV + AD) × PI






where


CV

means the cumulative value that is shown in the specified table
opposite the table depth of whichever of those deep well events
is the deepest (the "deepest well event");



AD

means the incremental value that is shown in the specified table
opposite the table depth of the deepest well event multiplied by
the positive difference between the deep well depth of that well
event and the table depth of that well event;



PI

means the producer's interest in the deepest well event;




specified table means,




(i)

in the case of a deep well event under section 1 (5), the
portion of Table 1 applicable to the well under subsection
(7.1),




(ii)

in the case of a deep well event under section 1 (5.1) or (5.2)
(a), the portion of Table 2 applicable to the well under
subsection (7.1), and




(iii)

in the case of a deep well event under section 1 (5.2) (b),
Table 3;



table depth

means the deep well depth of the deepest well event rounded down
to the nearest 500 metres;








Table 1




West Special Sour



East Special Sour




Depth

(metres)


Cumulative

Value $000


Incremental

Value

$/Metre



Depth

(metres)


Cumulative

Value $000


Incremental

Value

$/Metre



2 500
0
4 200

2 500
0
1 500


3 000
2 100
600

3 000
750
650


3 500
2 400
700

3 500
1 075
750


4 000
2 750
800

4 000
1 450
850


4 500
3 150
900

4 500
1 875
1 000


5 000
3 600
1 000

5 000
2 375
1 100


5 500
4 100


5 500
2 925








West Sweet



East Sweet




Depth

(metres)


Cumulative

Value $000


Incremental

Value

$/Metre



Depth

(metres)


Cumulative

Value $000


Incremental

Value

$/Metre



2 500
0
3 800

2 500
0
1 400


3 000
1 900
550

3 000
700
600


3 500
2 175
600

3 500
1 000
700


4 000
2 475
700

4 000
1 350
800


4 500
2 825
800

4 500
1 750
900


5 000
3 225
900

5 000
2 200
1 000


5 500
3 675


5 500
2 700








Table 2




West Special Sour



East Special Sour




Depth

(metres)


Cumulative

Value $000


Incremental

Value

$/Metre



Depth

(metres)


Cumulative

Value $000


Incremental

Value

$/Metre



2 500
0
4 830

2 500
0
1 725


3 000
2 415
690

3 000
863
748


3 500
2 760
805

3 500
1 236
863


4 000
3 163
920

4 000
1 668
978


4 500
3 623
1 035

4 500
2 156
1 150


5 000
4 140
1 150

5 000
2 731
1 265


5 500
4 715


5 500
3 364








West Sweet



East Sweet




Depth

(metres)


Cumulative

Value $000


Incremental

Value

$/Metre



Depth

(metres)


Cumulative

Value $000


Incremental

Value

$/Metre



2 500
0
4 370

2 500
0
1 610


3 000
2 185
633

3 000
805
690


3 500
2 501
690

3 500
1 150
805


4 000
2 846
805

4 000
1 553
920


4 500
3 249
920

4 500
2 013
1 035


5 000
3 709
1 035

5 000
2 530
1 150


5 500
4 226


5 500
3 105








Table 3




Depth

(metres)


Cumulative Value

$000


Incremental

Value $/Metre



2 500
445
430


3 000
660
720


3 500
1 020
980


4 000
1 510
1 006


4 500
2 013
974


5 000
2 500
622


5 500
2 811







(d)

the deep re-entry deduction amount means, for a producer with an
interest in a deep re-entry well event, the amount determined by the
following formula:




(CV + AD) × PI






where


CV

means the cumulative value that, in the portion of the following
table applicable to the well under subsection (7.1), is shown
opposite the table distance of the deep re-entry well event;



AD

means the incremental value that, in the portion of the
following table applicable to the well under subsection (7.1),
is shown opposite the table distance of the deep re-entry well
event multiplied by the positive difference between the
incremental drilled distance applicable to that deep re-entry
well event and the table distance of that well event;



PI

means the producer's interest in the deep re-entry well event;



table distance

means the incremental drilled distance applicable to the deep
re-entry well event rounded down to the next lowest table
distance value,



incremental drilled distance

means the positive difference between




(a)

the total measured depth of all deep well events and all deep
re-entry well events in the well after the well has been altered
in accordance with the amendment application, and




(b)

the total measured depth of all deep well events and all deep
re-entry well events in the well before that amendment;








West



East




Depth

(metres)


Cumulative

Value $000


Incremental

Value

$/Metre



Depth

(metres)


Cumulative

Value $000


Incremental

Value

$/Metre



100
0
750

100
0
450


300
150
500

300
90
300


1500
750


1500
450







(7.1)

For the purposes of determining which portion of the table in
subsection (7) applies to a well event,




(a)

the portions of the table applicable to East apply to a well event if
the well event has a spud date after November 30, 2003 and before
January 1, 2009 and the well event is located in any of the following
areas, which areas, in the case of areas referred to in subparagraphs
(i) to (xvi), are described in accordance with the petroleum and
natural gas grid established under the Petroleum and Natural Gas Grid
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 321/93, and, in the case of the areas referred
to in subparagraphs (xvii) to (xxi), are described in accordance with
the Dominion Land Survey System:




(i)

that portion of Group 095-A-01 to Group 095-A-04 (inclusive) that is
located within British Columbia;




(ii)

that portion of Group 095-B-01 to Group 095-B-04 (inclusive) that is
located within British Columbia;




(iii)

Group 094-O-01 to Group 094-O-16 (inclusive);




(iv)

Group 094-P-01 to Group 094-P-16 (inclusive);




(v)

Group 094-I-01 to Group 094-I-16 (inclusive);




(vi)

Group 094-J-01 to Group 094-J-16 (inclusive);




(vii)

Group 094-G-01 to Group 094-G-16 (inclusive);




(viii)

Group 094-H-01 to Group 094-H-16 (inclusive);




(ix)

that portion of Group 094-A-01 to Group 094-A-16 (inclusive) that is
located outside the Peace River Block;




(x)

that portion of Group 093-P-09 that is located outside the Peace River
Block;




(xi)

that portion of Group 093-P-10 that is located outside the Peace River
Block;




(xii)

Groups 093-P-01, 093-P-02, 093-P-07 and 093-P-08;




(xiii)

Group 093-I-16;




(xiv)

Blocks A and G to K of Group 093-I-15;




(xv)

Blocks A, B and F to K of Group 093-I-09;




(xvi)

Block I of Group 093-I-08;




(xvii)

the portion of the Peace River Block within Township 076 east of Range
20 W6M that is within British Columbia;




(xviii)

the portion of the Peace River Block within Township 077 east of Range
20 W6M that is within British Columbia;




(xix)

the portion of the Peace River Block within Township 078 east of Range
20 W6M that is within British Columbia;




(xx)

the portion of the Peace River Block within Township 079 east of Range
20 W6M that is within British Columbia;




(xxi)

the portion of the Peace River Block within Township 080 to Township
088 and Range 13 to Range 26 W6M that is within British Columbia,




(a.1)

the portions of the table in subsection (7) applicable to East apply
to a well event if the well event has a spud date after December 31,
2008 and is located in any of the following areas, which areas, in the
case of areas referred to in subparagraphs (i) to (xxxvi), are
described in accordance with the petroleum and natural gas grid
established under the Petroleum and Natural Gas Grid Regulation, B.C.
Reg. 536/2004, and, in the case of the areas referred to in
subparagraphs (xxxvii) to (lxxiii), are described in accordance with
the Dominion Land Survey System:




(i)

that portion of Group 095-A-01 to Group 095-A-04 (inclusive) that is
located within British Columbia;




(ii)

that portion of Group 095-B-01 to Group 095-B-04 (inclusive) that is
located within British Columbia;




(iii)

that portion of Group 095-C-01 that is located within British
Columbia;




(iv)

Group 094-P-01 to Group 094-P-16 (inclusive);




(v)

Group 094-O-01 to Group 094-O-3 (inclusive);




(vi)

Blocks A to C, Units 1-7 and 11-100 of Block D, and Blocks E to L of
Group 094-O-04;




(vii)

Group 094-O-05 to Group 094-O-16 (inclusive);




(viii)

Units 11-100 of Block A, Units 11-17, 21-27, 31-37, 41-47, 51-57,
61-67, 71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block B, Units 71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of
Block E, Units 71-100 of Block F, Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-37,
41-47, 51-57, 61-67, 71-100 of Block G, Blocks H to K (inclusive),
Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67, 71-77, 81-87,
91-97 of Block L of Group 094-N-01;




(ix)

Units 71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block G, Units 71-100 of Block H, Block
I, Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67, 71-77, 81-87,
91-97 of Block J, of Group 094-N-07;




(x)

Blocks A to C (inclusive), Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-37, 41-47,
51-57, 61-67, 71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block D, Units 1-7, 11-17, V
21-27, 31-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67, 71-100 of Block E, Blocks F to L
(inclusive) of Group 094-N-08;




(xi)

Blocks A-D, Units 1-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67, 71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of
Block E, Blocks F-K (inclusive), Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-37,
41-47, 51-57, 61-67, 71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block L of Group 094-N-09;




(xii)

Block A, Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67, 71-77,
81-87, 91-97 of Block B, Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27 of Block G, Units
1-30 of Block H of Group 094-N-10;




(xiii)

Block A, Units 1-73, 81-83, 91-93 of Block B, Units 1-70 of Block C,
Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67 of Block D, Units
1-3, 11-13, 21-23, 31-33, 41-43, 51-53, 61-63, 71-73, 81-83, 91-93 of
Block G, Block H and I, Units 1-3, 11-13, 21-23, 31-33, 41-43, 51-53,
61-63, 71-73, 81-83, 91-93 of Block J of Group 094-N-16;




(xiv)

Group 094-J-01 to Group 094-J-03 (inclusive);




(xv)

Blocks A to C (inclusive), Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-37, 41-47,
51-57, 61-67, 71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block D, Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27,
31-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67, 71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block E, Blocks F
to K (inclusive), Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67,
71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block L of Group 094-J-04;




(xvi)

Blocks A to C (inclusive), Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-37, 41-47,
51-57, 61-67, 71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block D, Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27,
31-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67, 71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block E, Blocks F
to K (inclusive), Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67,
71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block L of Group 094-J-05;




(xvii)

Group 094-J-06 to 094-J-11 (inclusive);




(xviii)

Blocks A to C (inclusive), Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-37, 41-47,
51-57, 61-67, 71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block D, Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27,
31-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67, 71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block E, Blocks F
to K (inclusive), Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67,
71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block L of Group 094-J-12;




(xix)

Blocks A to C (inclusive), Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-37, 41-47,
51-57, 61-67, 71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block D, Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27,
31-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67, 71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block E, Blocks F
to K (inclusive), Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67,
71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block L of Group 094-J-13;




(xx)

Group 094-J-14 to Group 094-J-16 (inclusive);




(xxi)

Group 094-I-01 to Group 094-I-16 (inclusive);




(xxii)

Group 094-H-01 to Group 094-H-16 (inclusive);




(xxiii)

Block A, Units 1-3, 11-13, 21-23, 31-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67, 71-100
of Block B, Units 71, 81, 91 of Block C, Unit 91 of Block E, Units 1,
11-15, 21-25, 31-35, 41-45, 51-59, 61-69, 71-79, 81-89, 91-100 of
Block F, Blocks G to K (inclusive), Units 1, 11, 21, 31-33, 41-43,
51-55, 61-65, 71-75, 81-85, 91-97 of Block L of Group 094-G-01;




(xxiv)

Units 31, 41, 51-53, 61-63, 71-73, 81-83, 91-95 of Block A, Units 51,
61, 71-73, 81-83, 91-95 of Block G, Units 1-5, 11-17, 21-27, 31-39,
41-49, 51-100 of Block H, Block I, Units 1-5, 11-15, 21-25, 31-37,
41-47, 51-59, 61-69, 71-79, 81-89, 91-100 of Block J, Unit 91 of Block
K of Group 094-G-07;




(xxv)

Block A to Block C (inclusive), Units 1-7, 11-19, 21-29, 31-100 of
Block D, Blocks E to L of Group 094-G-08;




(xxvi)

Group 094-G-09;




(xxvii)

Block A and B, Units 1, 11-13, 21-23, 31-33, 41-43, 51-55, 61-65,
71-77, 81-87, 91-100 of Block C, Unit 91 of Block D, Units 1, 11-13,
21-23, 31-37, 41-47, 51-100 of Block E, Blocks F to L (inclusive) of
Group 094-G-10;




(xxviii)

Units 51, 61, 71-75, 81-85, 91-99 of Block H, Units 1-9, 11-100 of
Block I, Units 11-13, 21-23, 31-37, 41-47, 51-100 of Block J, Units
51, 61, 71-73, 81-83, 91-97 of Block K of Group 094-G-11;




(xxix)

Units 71-73, 81-83, 91-97 of Block A, Units 71, 81, 91-95 of Block F,
Units 31-35, 41-45, 51-59, 61-69, 71-100 of Block G, Units 1-7, 11-19,
21-29, 31-100 of Block H, Blocks I and J, Units 1-5, 11-19, 21-29,
31-100 of Block K, Units 31-33, 41-43, 51-57, 61-67, 71-77, 81-87,
91-97 of Block L of Group 094-G-13;




(xxx)

Blocks A and B, Units 1-7, 11-100 of Block C, Units 11, 21, 31-33,
41-43, 51-59, 61-69, 71-100 of Block D, Blocks E to L (inclusive) of
Group 094-G-14;




(xxxi)

Group 094-G-15 and Group 094-G-16;




(xxxii)

Unit 91 of Block H, Units 1, 11-13, 21-23, 31-37, 41-47, 51-57, 61-67,
71-79, 81-89, 91-100 of Block I, Units 91-93 of Block J of Group
094-B-16;




(xxxiii)

that portion of Group 094-A-09 to Group 094-A-11 that is located
outside the Peace River Block;




(xxxiv)

that portion of Block I, Units 1, 11-15, 21-25, 31-35, 41-45, 51-57,
61-67, 71-100 of Block J, Units 71, 81, 91 of Block K of Group
094-A-12 that is located outside the Peace River Block;




(xxxv)

Blocks A and B, Units 1, 11-13, 21-23, 31-35, 41-45, 51-55, 61-65,
71-77, 81-87, 91-99 of Block C, Units 11-13, 21-23, 31-35, 41-45,
51-57, 61-67, 71-79, 81-89, 91-100 of Block E, Units 1-9, 11-100 of
Block F, Blocks G to L (inclusive) of Group 094-A-13;




(xxxvi)

Group 094-A-14 to Group 094-A-16 (inclusive);




(xxxvii)

that portion of the Peace River Block within Sections 1-3, 10-15,
22-29, 32-36 of Township 88 Range 23 W6M;




(xxxviii)

that portion of the Peace River Block with Township 88 east of Range
23 W6M within British Columbia;




(xxxix)

Sections 1-3, 10-15, 22-27, 34-36 of Township 87 Range 23 W6M;




(xl)

Township 87 east of Range 23 W6M within British Columbia;




(xli)

Sections 1-5, 8-16, 21-28, 33-36 of Township 86 Range 23 W6M;




(xlii)

Township 86 east of Range 23 W6M within British Columbia;




(xliii)

Sections 1, 2, 12, 13, 24 of Township 85 Range 24 W6M;




(xliv)

Township 85 east of Range 24 W6M within British Columbia;




(xlv)

Sections 1-5, 8-16, 22-27, 35, 36 of Township 84 Range 24 W6M;




(xlvi)

Township 84 east of Range 24 W6M within British Columbia;




(xlvii)

Sections 1, 12, 13, 24 of Township 83 Range 25 W6M;




(xlviii)

Township 83 east of Range 25 W6M within British Columbia;




(xlix)

Sections 1, 2, 10-15, 22-27, 34-36 of Township 82 Range 25 W6M;




(l)

Township 82 east of Range 25 W6M within British Columbia;




(li)

Sections 12, 13, 24-26, 35, 36 of Township 81 Range 25 W6M;




(lii)

Township 81 east of Range 25 W6M within British Columbia;




(liii)

Sections 1-3, 9-16, 20-29, 31-36 of Township 80 Range 24 W6M;




(liv)

Township 80 east of Range 24 W6M within British Columbia;




(lv)

Sections 12, 13, 23-26, 34-36 of Township 79 Range 24 W6M;




(lvi)

Township 79 east of Range 24 W6M within British Columbia;




(lvii)

Section 36 of Township 78 Range 24 W6M;




(lviii)

Sections 1-4, 9-17, 19-36 of Township 78 Range 23 W6M;




(lix)

Township 78 east of Range 23 W6M within British Columbia;




(lx)

Sections 1, 12-14, 23-27, 34-36 of Township 77 Range 23 W6M;




(lxi)

Township 77 east of Range 23 W6M within British Columbia;




(lxii)

that portion of the Peace River Block within Section 36 of Township 76
Range 23 W6M;




(lxiii)

that portion of the Peace River Block within Township 76 east of Range
23 W6M within British Columbia;




(lxiv)

Group 093-P-01;




(lxv)

Units 1-5, 11-15, 21-25, 31-37, 41-47, 51-100 of Block A, Units 51,
61, 71-73, 81-83, 91-97 of Block B, Units 71, 81, 91-93 of Block E,
Units 11, 21, 31-33, 41-43, 51-57, 61-67, 71-100 of Block F, Units
1-7, 11-100 of Block G, Blocks H to K (inclusive), Units 1-3, 11-15,
21-25, 31-37, 41-47, 51-100 of Block L of Group 093-P-02;




(lxvi)

Units 51, 61, 71-73, 81-83, 91-95 of Block I of Group 093-P-03;




(lxvii)

Units 1-5, 11-19, 21-29, 31-100 of Block A, Units 31, 41, 51-53,
61-63, 71-75, 81-85, 91-97 of Block B, Units 71, 81, 91 of Block F,
Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27, 31-39, 41-49, 51-59, 61-69, 71-100 of Block
G, Blocks H to J (inclusive), Units 1, 11-13, 21-23, 31-35, 41-45,
51-55, 61-65, 71-75, 81-85, 91-97 of Block K of Group 093-P-06;




(lxviii)

Group 093-P-07 and Group 093-P-08;




(lxix)

That portion of Group 093-P-09 and Group 093-P-10 that is located
outside of the Peace River Block;




(lxx)

That portion of Blocks A, B, Units 1-7, 11-19, 21-29, 31-39, 41-49,
51-59, 61-69, 71-100 of Block C, Units 71, 81, 91-93 of Block D, Units
1-3, 11-13, 21-23, 31-33, 41-43, 51-55 of Block E, Blocks F to H
(inclusive) of Group 093-P-11 that is located outside of the Peace
River Block;




(lxxi)

Units 51, 61, 71-73, 81-83, 91-97 of Block H, Units 1-7, 11-17, 21-27,
31-100 of Block I, Units 31, 41, 51-53, 61-63, 71-77, 81-87, 91-100 of
Block J, Unit 91 of Block K of Group 093-I-09;




(lxxii)

Units 51, 61, 71, 81, 91 of Block H, Units 1, 11-13, 21-23, 31-33,
41-43, 51-53, 61-63, 71-73, 81-83, 91-95 of Block I of Group 093-I-15;




(lxxiii)

Blocks A, B, Units 1, 11-17, 21-27, 31-100 of Block C, Units 31, 41,
51-55, 61-65, 71-77, 81-87, 91-97 of Block D, Units 1-7, 11-19, 21-29,
31-39, 41-49, 51-100 of Block E, and Blocks F to L (inclusive) of
Group 093-I-16,




(b)

the portions of the table applicable to West apply to a well event
located in British Columbia to which paragraph (a) does not apply,




(c)

the portions of the table applicable to Special Sour apply to a well
event if




(i)

the maximum potential H
2
S release rate from the well in which the well event is located is
0.01 m
3
/s or greater and less than 0.1 m
3
/s and that well is located within 500 metres of the corporate
boundaries of an urban centre,




(ii)

the maximum potential H
2
S release rate from the well in which the well event is located is 0.1
m
3
/s or greater and less than 0.3 m
3
/s and that well is located within 1.5 kilometres of the corporate
boundaries of an urban centre,




(iii)

the maximum potential H
2
S release rate from the well in which the well event is located is 0.3
m
3
/s or greater and less than 2.0 m
3
/s and that well is located within 5 kilometres of the corporate
boundaries of and urban centre, or




(iv)

the maximum potential H
2
S release rate from the well in which the well event is located is 2.0
m
3
/s or greater, and




(d)

the portions of the table applicable to Sweet apply to a well event
located in any well in British Columbia to which paragraph (c) does
not apply.




(8)

If a deep well event is also a deep discovery well event, the maximum
amount that may, in the aggregate, be deducted under subsection (5)
(c) in relation to the well event is the positive difference, if any,
obtained by subtracting the total of the royalty or tax exempt values
determined in relation to the well event under subsection (7) (b) from
the well depth deduction amount determined under subsection (7) (c).




(9)

If a deep re-entry well event is also a deep discovery well event, the
maximum amount that may, in the aggregate, be deducted under
subsection (5) (d) in relation to the well event is the positive
difference, if any, obtained by subtracting the total of the royalty
or tax exempt values determined in relation to the well event under
subsection (7) (b) from the deep re-entry incremental deduction amount
determined under subsection (7) (d).




(10)

For a well event described in section 6 (1.5) that is also a deep well
event, the deduction under subsection (5) (c) of this section in
relation to the well event for the 12 calendar months beginning with
the month in which the well event first commenced continuous
production is deemed to be the same as the deduction that would have
been made had section 6 (1.4) not been enacted.


[am. B.C. Regs. 503/94; 65/95; 21/98, s. 4; 50/2001, s. 6; 29/2002, s.
3; 250/2003, s. 5; 302/2003, s. 2; 442/2003, s. 4; 178/2004, s.
3; 138/2005, s. 3; 191/2005, Sch. 2, s. 2; 73/2006, ss. 8 and 9;
17/2009, s. 2; 116/2009; 193/2009, s. 3; 269/2010, Sch.
s. 16; 91/2012, s. (c); 128/2013, s. 2; 30/2014, s. 2;
194/2018, Sch. 1, s. 3.]






Coalbed methane producer cost of service bank




7.1

(1)


Each producer having an interest in one or more well events that form
part of a coalbed methane project has, for that coalbed methane
project, a coalbed methane producer cost of service bank.




(2)

There is to be added to a producer's coalbed methane producer cost of
service bank for a coalbed methane project, on the completion of each
completed well event that is part of the coalbed methane project, the
amount determined by multiplying the producer's interest in that well
event by the following:




(a)

if the well event is on Crown land and production is under the
authority of a BPO lease, $37 500;




(b)

if the well event is on Crown land and production is under the
authority of a NBPO lease, $30 000;




(c)

for any other well event on Crown land, $50 000;




(d)

for any well event on freehold mineral land, $30 000.




(3)

A disposition by a producer to another person (the "acquirer") of all
or part of the producer's interest in well events that form all or
part of a coalbed methane project effects




(a)

a deduction, from the balance of the producer's coalbed methane
producer cost of service bank for that coalbed methane project, of
that portion of the balance that is proportionate to the proportion of
the producer's interest in the coalbed methane project that is being
disposed of, and




(b)

an addition, to the balance in the acquirer's coalbed methane producer
cost of service bank for that coalbed methane project, of the amount
of the deduction referred to in paragraph (a).




(4)

The balance in a producer's coalbed methane producer cost of service
bank for a coalbed methane project at the end of a producing month is
equal to the amount determined by the following formula:




A + B + C + D − E − F






where


A

means the balance, if any, in the coalbed methane producer cost
of service bank for the coalbed methane project at the end of
the immediately preceding producing month,



B

means any amount added to the producer's coalbed methane
producer cost of service bank for the coalbed methane project
during the producing month under subsection (2),



C

means the amount, if any, by which the aggregate of the
producer's producer cost of service allowances for the producing
month for all well events in the coalbed methane project exceeds
the producer's total gross natural gas royalty or tax determined
under section 7 (7) (a) for the producing month for those well
events,



D

means any amount added to the producer's coalbed methane
producer cost of service bank for the coalbed methane project
during the producing month under subsection (3) (b) of this
section,



E

means any amount deducted from the producer's coalbed methane
producer cost of service bank for the coalbed methane project
during the producing month under subsection (3) (a), and



F

means the amount, if any, deducted from the producer's coalbed
methane producer cost of service bank for that coalbed methane
project under section 7 (5.1) during the producing month.





[en. B.C. Reg. 29/2002, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 442/2003, s. 5; 138/2005,
s. 4; 73/2006, s. 10.]






Royalty for unaccounted quantities




7.2

(1)


If the operator of a reporting facility does not account for a
quantity of oil in information that the operator is required to
provide under section 8 (1) (a) and if, under section
73.1 (1) of the Act, the collector treats the unaccounted
quantity as having been sold, the collector may, in accordance with
subsection (3) of this section, calculate the amount of royalty
payable to the government by the operator in respect of that quantity.




(2)

If the operator of a reporting facility does not account for a
quantity of marketable gas or natural gas by-products in information
that the operator is required to provide under any of section
8 (1) (b) to (e), indicating how the volumes of
marketable gas and natural gas by-products are allocated, and if,
under section 73.1 (1) of the Act, the collector treats the
unaccounted quantity as having been sold, the collector may, in
accordance with subsection (5) or (7) of this section, calculate the
amount of royalty payable to the government by the operator in respect
of that quantity.




(3)

The total amount of royalty payable for an unaccounted quantity of oil
is the quantity of oil referred to in subsection (1) multiplied by the
unit selling price of oil fixed under subsection (4) multiplied by the
royalty percentage rate for oil of 40%.




(4)

The collector must fix a unit selling price of oil at a level not
exceeding the highest unit selling price received by any producer
during the month in which the unaccounted quantity of oil is treated
as having been sold.




(5)

The total amount of royalty payable for an unaccounted quantity of
marketable gas is the quantity of marketable gas referred to in
subsection (2) multiplied by the price of marketable gas fixed under
subsection (6) multiplied by the royalty percentage rate for
marketable gas of 27%.




(6)

The collector must fix a price of marketable gas at a level not
exceeding the highest reference price for marketable gas determined
for any producer during the month in which the unaccounted quantity of
marketable gas is treated as having been sold.




(7)

The total amount of royalty payable for an unaccounted quantity of
natural gas by-products is the quantity of natural gas by-products
referred to in subsection (2) multiplied by the unit selling price of
natural gas by-products fixed under subsection (8) multiplied by the
following applicable royalty percentage rate:




(a)

20% for natural gas liquids;




(b)

16.667% for sulphur.




(8)

The collector must fix a unit selling price for natural gas
by-products at a level not exceeding the highest unit selling price
received by any producer during the month in which the unaccounted
quantity of natural gas by-products is treated as having been sold.

[en. B.C. Reg. 194/2018, Sch. 1, s. 4.]





Reporting




8

(1)


The following persons must provide the following information to the
collector in the form and manner required by the collector:




(a)

the operator of a reporting facility must, on or before the 21st day
of the calendar month after each producing month, provide information
indicating the production, receipt, disposition, use and storage in
that producing month of oil, natural gas, natural gas by-products and
water obtained at the reporting facility, and any other information
specified by the collector;




(b)

the operator of a reporting facility must, on or before the 25th day
of the calendar month after each producing month, provide information
indicating, for the volumes of marketable gas that the reporting
facility delivers during that producing month to be sold or stored and
in respect of which royalty or tax has not previously been paid, how
those volumes are allocated




(i)

to a producer's share of a well event or unitized operation, or




(ii)

if the operator is unable to allocate to a producer's share of a well
event or unitized operation, to the reporting facility from which the
volumes were received;




(c)

the operator of a reporting facility to which volumes of marketable
gas are allocated under paragraph (b) (ii) must, on or before the
25th day of the calendar month after each producing month, provide
information indicating how those volumes are allocated under paragraph
(b) (i) or (ii);




(d)

the operator of a reporting facility must, on or before the 25th day
of the calendar month after each producing month, provide information
indicating, for the volumes of natural gas by-products that the
reporting facility produces during that producing month, how those
volumes are allocated




(i)

to a producer's share of a well event or unitized operation, or




(ii)

if the operator is unable to allocate to a producer's share of a well
event or unitized operation, to the reporting facility from which the
volumes were received;




(e)

the operator of a reporting facility to which volumes of natural gas
by-products are allocated under paragraph (d) (ii) must, on or before
the 25th day of the calendar month after each producing month, provide
information indicating how those volumes are allocated under paragraph
(d) (i) or (ii);




(f)

the operator of a reporting facility that delivers natural gas to a
natural gas processing plant and the operator of a dry gas source
must, on or before the 25th day of the calendar month after each
producing month, provide information indicating, for the volumes of
natural gas that the reporting facility delivers or that the dry gas
source disposes of during that producing month, how those volumes are
allocated




(i)

to a producer's share of a well event or unitized operation, or




(ii)

if the operator is unable to allocate to a producer's share of a well
event or unitized operation, to the reporting facility from which the
volumes were received;




(g)

the operator of a reporting facility to which volumes of natural gas
are allocated under paragraph (f) (ii) must, on or before the 25th day
of the calendar month after each producing month, provide information
indicating how those volumes are allocated under paragraph (f) (i) or
(ii);




(h)

the operator of a reporting facility must, on or before the 25th day
of the calendar month after each producing month, provide information
indicating, for the volumes of marketable gas that are returned to the
reporting facility from a natural gas processing plant or meter
station during that producing month, how those volumes are allocated




(i)

to a producer's share of a well event or unitized operation, or




(ii)

if the operator is unable to allocate to a producer's share of a well
event or unitized operation, to the reporting facility from which the
volumes were originally received;




(i)

the operator of a reporting facility to which volumes of marketable
gas are allocated under paragraph (h) (ii) must, on or before the 25th
day of the calendar month after each producing month, provide
information indicating how those volumes are allocated under paragraph
(h) (i) or (ii);




(j)

the operator of a reporting facility that delivers oil or condensate
for sale must, on or before the 21st day of the calendar month after
each producing month, provide information indicating, for that
producing month, the producer, the purchaser and the shipper of the
oil or condensate and any other information specified by the collector
about the delivery and sale;




(k)

a person who purchases, at a reporting facility, oil or condensate
produced in British Columbia must, on or before the 10th day of the
second calendar month after the calendar month in which the purchase
occurred, provide information identifying the seller and indicating
the volume, price, value, density and sulphur content of the oil or
condensate and any other information specified by the collector about
the oil or condensate;




(l)

a producer of oil must, on or before the 10th day of the second
calendar month after each producing month, provide information
indicating, for each reporting facility or unitized operation at which
the producer had sales of oil in that producing month,




(i)

the volume of oil sold by the producer at that reporting facility or
unitized operation in that producing month,




(ii)

the sales value of oil sold by the producer at that reporting facility
or unitized operation in that producing month,




(iii)

the transportation and tariff costs that under section 7 (3) (a) may
be deducted for that producing month, and




(iv)

any other information specified by the collector;




(m)

a producer of natural gas by-products must, on or before the 10th day
of the second calendar month after each producing month, provide
information indicating, for that producing month, the sales volumes
and values of natural gas by-products produced from each well event in
which the producer has an interest and any other information specified
by the collector;




(n)

the operator of a well event must, on or before the 15th day of the
calendar month after the calendar month in which operations at the
well event began or were suspended, provide information indicating the
commencement or suspension of operations and any other information
specified by the collector;




(o)

the operator of a well event must, on or before the 15th day of the
calendar month after the calendar month in which the well event is
connected to a reporting facility or in which a change in producers'
interests in the well event is effective, provide information
indicating the producers' interests or the change in producers'
interests in the natural gas and oil produced from the well event and
any other information specified by the collector;




(p)

the operator of a unitized operation for which there is a unitization
agreement, under which royalty is determined in relation to a tract
according to production volumes allocated to that tract under the
agreement, must, on or before the 15th day of the calendar month after
the calendar month in which there is a change in producers' interests
in the natural gas or oil allocated to a tract, provide information
indicating the change in producers' interests in the tract and any
other information specified by the collector;




(q)

for the purpose of section 2 (8), the operator of a producer-owned
plant or a producer-owned sales line that is not located within a
project ring fence must, on or before March 10 of the year after the
calendar year in which the plant processed gas or the pipeline
transported gas, provide information indicating the capital and
operating costs of the plant or sales line and any other information
specified by the collector;




(r)

a producer who has drilled a well that qualifies for a summer drilling
credit under section 4 (4) must, on or before June 30 of the year
after the calendar year in which the well was drilled, provide
information indicating




(i)

the amount of goods and service costs incurred to drill the well, and




(ii)

each producer's proportionate interest in the well.




(2)

Subject to subsection (2.1), a person may amend information provided
by that person under subsection (1) by providing the amended
information to the collector.




(2.01)

Subject to subsection (2.1), if a person who provides information
under subsection (1) (a), (n), (o) or (p) becomes aware that the
information is no longer accurate or complete, the person must provide
to the collector amended information that is accurate and complete as
follows:




(a)

in the case of information provided under subsection (1) (a), on or
before the next 21st day of a calendar month;




(b)

in the case of information provided under subsection (1) (n), (o) or
(p), on or before the next 15th day of a calendar month.




(2.1)

A person must not provide amended information under subsection (2) or
(2.01)




(a)

more than 72 months after the month in relation to which the amended
information is being provided,




(b)

in respect of an amount assessed or reassessed under section 9 (2) and
invoiced under section 9 (5), or




(c)

in respect of an amount about which the collector has made a decision
under section 11 (1), the administrator has made a decision under
section 11 (2) or the Minister of Finance has made a decision under
section 12 (4).




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 50/2001, s. 7.]




(4)

A person who produces, processes, transports, acquires from a producer
or offers to acquire from a producer oil, natural gas or natural gas
by-products shall, not later than 30 days after a written request from
the administrator or the collector, provide, in the form and manner
and for the times requested, the information requested respecting the
production, processing, transportation, acquisition or sale of the
oil, natural gas or natural gas by-products.




(5)

On or before the 9th day of the second calendar month after the month
in which a producer produces marketable gas, the producer must, in the
form and manner required by the administrator, provide to the
administrator copies of all invoices for the following:




(a)

sales of the marketable gas;




(b)

purchases and sales of gathering, processing and transportation
services made in the producing month.


[am. B.C. Regs. 21/98, s. 5; 50/2001, s. 7; 250/2003, s. 6; 302/2003,
ss. 2, 4 and 5; 442/2003, s. 6; 191/2005 Sch. 2, s. 3; 73/2006,
s. 11; 99/2008, ss. 6, 7 and 8; 269/2010, Sch. s. 17;
194/2018, Sch. 1, s. 5.]






Examination of return and assessment of royalty or tax




9

(1)


After receiving information provided in respect of a producer under
section 8 (1) for a producing month, the collector must, on or
about the 23rd day of the second calendar month after the producing
month,




(a)

issue a Crown invoice to the producer showing, for the producing
month, the amount of royalty and tax that is payable to the government
in respect of the oil, marketable gas or natural gas by-products to
which the information applies, and




(b)

if royalty for an unaccounted quantity is payable as a result of the
information provided by the operator of a reporting facility, issue a
Crown invoice to the operator showing the amount of that royalty.




(1.1)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 194/2018, Sch. 1, s. 6 (a).]




(1.2)

After receiving amended information provided in respect of a producer
under section 8 (2) or (2.01), the collector must




(a)

issue an amended Crown invoice to the producer showing, for the
producing month, the amount of royalty, tax, interest and penalty that
is payable to the government in respect of the oil, marketable gas or
natural gas by-products to which the amended information applies, and




(b)

if royalty for an unaccounted quantity and interest are payable as a
result of the information provided by the operator of a reporting
facility, issue a Crown invoice to the operator showing the amount of
that royalty and interest.




(2)

If the collector, on examining information or amended information
provided under section 8, disagrees with it or calculations in it, the
collector may do either or both of the following:




(a)

request the person who provided the information or amended information
to provide, on or before a date specified by the collector or, if no
date is specified, within 30 days after the date of the request,
information that the collector believes is correct;




(b)

assess or reassess royalty, tax, interest and penalty payable to the
government based on the information that the collector believes is
correct.




(3)

The collector may make the assessment or reassessment referred to in
subsection (2)




(a)

at any time, if the producer has made a misrepresentation or committed
fraud in making the return or supplying information under this
regulation, or




(b)

in any other case, not more than 84 months after the last day of the
producing month to which the assessment or reassessment relates.




(4)

The notice of assessment must contain the determination made by the
collector of the amount of royalty, tax, interest and penalty payable
and the due date for payment of that amount.




(5)

On assessing or reassessing the royalty, tax, interest or penalty
payable by a producer who has not provided information or has provided
information or calculations with which the collector disagrees, the
collector must issue to the producer a Crown invoice containing a
notice of assessment.




(5.1)

On assessing or reassessing the royalty for an unaccounted quantity,
interest or penalty payable by the operator of a reporting facility
who has not provided information or has provided information or
calculations with which the collector disagrees, the collector must
issue to the operator a Crown invoice containing a notice of
assessment.




(6)

Evidence that a Crown invoice has been issued under this section is
proof, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that the amount
assessed is due and owing, and the onus of proving otherwise is on the
person liable to pay the amount assessed.




(7)

In the case of an overpayment by a producer, the producer may deduct
from royalty or tax payments due after the date of the notice of
assessment the amount of the overpayment indicated in the notice of
assessment.




(7.1)

In the case of an overpayment by the operator of a reporting facility,
the operator may deduct from the royalty for an unaccounted quantity
due after the date of the notice of assessment the amount of the
overpayment indicated in the notice of assessment.




(8)

The collector may assess a person for interest and penalties referred
to in section 13.


[am. B.C. Regs. 50/2001, s. 8; 302/2003, s. 2; 191/2005,
Sch. 2, s.  4; 73/2006, ss. 9 and 12; 99/2008,
s. 9; 194/2018, Sch. 1, s. 6.]






Producer liability




10

(1)


A person's liability for royalty, tax, interest or penalty due under
the Act and this regulation is not affected by reason only of a prior
incorrect assessment or the absence of an assessment.




(2)

Royalty, tax, interest and penalties are payable whether or not an
objection to the assessment is made under section 11 or 12.




(3)

Subject to being amended, changed or varied on appeal or by
reassessment, a Crown invoice issued or a penalty imposed under this
regulation is valid and binding despite any error, defect or omission
in the Crown invoice or penalty or in procedure.

[am. B.C. Reg. 194/2018, Sch. 1, s. 7.]





Reconsideration by collector or administrator




11

(1)


The collector may reconsider or vary a Crown invoice for royalty, tax
or penalty on the request of a producer or the operator of a reporting
facility who objects in writing to the invoiced amount.




(2)

The administrator may reconsider or vary a producer price




(a)

on the request of a producer who objects in writing to the producer
price as determined, or




(b)

if the administrator determines that the information on which the
producer price was calculated was incorrect or incomplete.


[am. B.C. Regs. 21/98, s. 6; 50/2001, s. 9; 302/2003, s. 2;
194/2018, Sch. 1, s. 8.]






Appeals




12

(1)


An appeal to the Minister of Finance lies from a decision of the
collector under section 3 (1) or 11 (1) or a decision of the
administrator under section 11 (2).




(2)

Written notice of the appeal must be given to the Minister of Finance
within 90 days after the date of the decision.




(3)

The appellant must set out in the notice of appeal a statement of all
material facts and the reasons in support of the appeal.




(4)

On receiving the notice of appeal, the Minister of Finance must




(a)

consider the matter,




(b)

affirm, amend or reverse the decision of the collector or the
administrator, and




(c)

promptly notify the appellant in writing of the result of the appeal.




(5)

The Minister of Finance may




(a)

delegate, in writing, the exercise of any power or performance of any
duty conferred or imposed on the Minister of Finance under this
section to an employee of the ministry of the Minister of Finance, and




(b)

provide, in making a delegation, directions that are binding on the
delegate respecting the exercise of the power or the performance of
the duty.




(6)

A delegation under subsection (5) may be made by name or by
designation of the office.


[en. B.C. Reg. 194/2018, Sch. 1, s. 9; am. B.C. Regs. 239/2020, Sch.
4; 211/2022, Sch. 4, s. 1.]






Notice of appeal




12.1

(1)


The date on which a notice of appeal is given to the Minister of
Finance under section 12 (2) is the date it is received by the
Minister of Finance.




(2)

A notice of appeal is conclusively deemed to have been given to the
Minister of Finance if it is received at a location and by a method
specified by the Minister of Finance.

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/2022, Sch. 4, s. 2.]





Interest and penalties




13

(1)


The annual rate of interest during a quarterly period for penalties,
royalties, taxes and unpaid interest is 3.0% above the prime lending
rate of the principal banker to the Province on the 15th day of the
month immediately preceding a quarterly period commencing on January
1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 of each calendar year.




(1.1)

The annual rate of interest during a quarterly period for overpayments
is 2.0% below the prime lending rate of the principal banker to the
Province on the 15th day of the month immediately preceding a
quarterly period commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October
1 of each calendar year.




(1.2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 194/2018, Sch. 1, s. 13 (c).]




(2)

Interest payable must be




(a)

compounded monthly, and




(b)

calculated on the number of days since the last compounding of
interest or, if no compounding has yet occurred, from the date that
interest is payable.




(3)

At the end of a calendar month, interest must be calculated in
accordance with subsection (2) on an amount owing




(a)

by a producer for royalty, tax, unpaid interest or penalty, or




(b)

by the operator of a reporting facility for royalty for an unaccounted
quantity, unpaid interest or penalty.




(4)

If full payment of an account is not made by the due date shown on a
Crown invoice, but is made within 30 days after a subsequent written
request for payment is issued, the payment of the amount set out in
the written request, without the interest accrued since the date of
the written request, must be accepted in settlement of the account.




(5)

If a producer overpays royalties or taxes, interest on the overpayment




(a)

must be calculated in accordance with subsection (2) from the 61st day
after the day the overpayment is received, and




(b)

stops accruing




(i)

on the day that payment of the amount owed is mailed to the producer
or, if delivered to the producer without mailing, the day of delivery,
or




(ii)

on the day that the amount owed is applied to royalties, taxes, unpaid
interest or penalties owing by the producer.




(6)

If the operator of a reporting facility overpays a royalty for an
unaccounted quantity and the overpayment is subsequently reversed,




(a)

no interest is payable on the reversed amount before the day of the
reversal, and




(b)

interest on the reversed amount




(i)

must be calculated in accordance with subsection (2) from the 61st day
after the day the amount is reversed, and




(ii)

stops accruing




(A)

on the day that payment of the amount owed is mailed to the operator
or, if delivered to the operator without mailing, the day of delivery,
or




(B)

on the day that the amount owed is applied to royalties, unpaid
interest or penalties owing by the operator.




(7)

This section does not operate to require the payment of an amount of
interest less than $5.




(8)

The collector may assess at any time interest, calculated in
accordance with this section, on an amount owing for royalty or tax
until the day that a Crown invoice is issued in relation to the amount
owing.




(9)

The collector may assess at any time interest, calculated in
accordance with this section, on an amount owing for royalty, tax,
unpaid interest or penalty from the day that a Crown invoice for the
amount owing is due or the day that a notice of assessment is issued
in relation to the amount owing.




(10)

If a person does not, within the required time and in the required
form and manner, provide information required under section
8 (1), (2.01), (4) or (5) or 9 (2) (a), the person
may be assessed a penalty of $500 for each month or part of a month
that the failure to provide the information continues, or for any
lesser number of months that the collector considers appropriate.




(11)

If a person provides information under section 8 (1), (2.01), (4)
or (5) or 9 (2) (a) that contains any of the following
data discrepancies and the discrepancies are not corrected by the date
the person is required to provide the information, the person may be
assessed a penalty of $100 in respect of each discrepancy for each
month or part of a month that the failure to correct the discrepancy
continues, or for any lesser number of months that the collector
considers appropriate:




(a)

an imbalance error;




(b)

incomplete or invalid information;




(c)

a metering difference error.


[am. B.C. Regs. 21/98, s. 7; 50/2001, s. 10; 191/2005, Sch. 2, s.
5; 73/2006, s. 13; 194/2018, Sch. 1, s. 10.]






Transition — interest and penalties




14

(1)


Section 13 (1) to (5) applies to interest calculated for the first
time on or after November 1, 2018 in respect of an amount, whether or
not the amount was payable before that day.




(2)

Section 13 (4) and (5), as it read immediately before November 1,
2018, applies to failures to file that began before that day and
continue on or after that day.

[en. B.C. Reg. 194/2018, Sch. 1, s. 11.]





Transition — notice of appeal




15


This regulation, as it read on October 31, 2022, continues to
apply in relation to a notice of appeal under section 12 from a
decision of the collector or a decision of the administrator if the
decision is dated on or before October 31, 2022.

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/2022, Sch. 4, s. 2.]



Schedule A


Plats dated December 31, 1976, describing areas in the Peace River
District.



NOTE:
The plats in Schedule A are exempt from publication and may be
inspected at the J.T. Fyles Natural Resources Library,
1810 Blanshard Street, First Floor, Victoria, BC
V8T 4J1, by appointment during regular office hours. Appointments
to inspect the plats may be made by calling 250-952-0564 or by
emailing JTF.Library@gov.bc.ca.



[Provisions of the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 361, ss. 73, 74 and 133.]



