







B.C. Reg. 357/98

O.C. 1347/98


Deposited October 23, 1998






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Petroleum and Natural Gas Act


Petroleum and Natural Gas General Regulation


[Last amended September 1, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 187/2023]






Interpretation




1


In this regulation, unless the context otherwise requires:


"Act"
means the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

;


"gas"
means natural gas as defined in the Act;


"oil"
means petroleum as defined in the Act;


"operator"
means the owner responsible to the regulator for the drilling,
completion, production and abandonment of a well or the general
construction, operation and reclamation of any production facility or
plant covered by this regulation;



"project area"

means the maximum applied for area after any amendments to the
geophysical program, determined as the product of the width and the
length of the survey line.

[am. B.C. Reg. 187/2023, Sch., s. 14.]





Spacing area




1.1


For the purposes of the definition of "spacing area" in section 1 of
the Act, a spacing area consists of an area of land surface and
subsurface specified under Part 7 of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 33/2020, App. 3.]





Repealed




2


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 269/2010, Sch., s. 13.]






Repealed




3


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 233/2003, s. (b).]






Repealed




4


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 269/2010, Sch., s. 13.]






Unitized operations




5

(1)


The minister must encourage efforts initiated by owners of oil and gas
interests in any pool to consolidate, merge or otherwise combine their
interests for the purpose of accomplishing the more efficient and more
economical development and production of the oil and gas resources of
the pool, irrespective of whether that purpose is accomplished by unit
operation, cooperative development or joint participation.




(2)

The drilling, production and other field operations provided for in an
agreement for the unitized operation of a pool, or a part thereof,
must not be put into effect until a copy of the form of the agreement
has been filed with the minister and the regulator.




(3)

If an agreement for the unitized operation of a pool or part thereof
has been filed with the minister and the regulator,




(a)

the minister and the regulator must be advised immediately upon the
coming into effect of the agreement as to what tracts have qualified
for inclusion in the unitized area, and




(b)

the minister and the regulator must be advised immediately upon any
change in the unitized area as to each addition or deletion from the
unitized area.




(4)

If, by an agreement filed under subsection (2), the owners of the oil
and gas interest agree that a designated person is to be their
operator with respect to their functions, powers, duties, obligations
and responsibilities under the Act and regulations, the performance or
nonperformance thereof by the designated person is to be treated as
the performance or nonperformance by the owners otherwise responsible
therefor under the provisions of the Act and regulations.




(5)

In the event of non-compliance with a unitization order given under
section 115 (2) of the Act, the minister may give instructions for any
relevant well or wells to be shut-in for a period determined by the
minister.

[am. B.C. Reg. 187/2023, Sch., s. 14.]





Availability of records




6


Complete and accurate records of quantities of oil and gas that are
produced, sold, purchased, acquired, stored, transported, refined or
processed must be kept and maintained in British Columbia, and must be
available for examination and copying at all reasonable times by any
person authorized by the regulator, and the regulator may require that
the records be filed with the regulator.

[am. B.C. Reg. 187/2023, Sch., s. 14.]





Repealed




7-8


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 269/2010, Sch., s. 13.]






Special projects




9


The following special projects are prescribed for the purposes of
section 58 (1) (b) of the Act:




(a)

development or production of petroleum or natural gas, or both, from a
field or pool or portion of a field or pool, using repressuring,
recycling or pressure maintenance to enhance recovery;




(b)

operation or use of a storage reservoir, including the disposal of
produced water or acid gases;




(c)

the disposal of petroleum, natural gas, water produced in relation to
the production of petroleum or natural gas or waste.

[en. B.C. Reg. 198/2016, App. 1.]





Notice of intended disposal




10


A notice under section 71 (2)
[disposal of Crown reserves by public auction or tender]
of the Act must be published by posting the notice on a publicly
accessible website maintained by or on behalf of the minister.

[en. B.C. Reg. 131/2018, Sch.]





Information sharing â€” prescribed enactments




11


For the purposes of section 122.1 (5) (j) of the Act, the following
enactments are prescribed:




(a)

the

Business Number Act

;




(b)

section 8 of the

Financial Administration Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2023, Sch. 8.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of the regulation:

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 361, ss. 132 and 133.]



