







B.C. Reg. 292/2008

O.C. 748/2008


Deposited October 17, 2008

effective November 1, 2008





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to Point in Time




Business Practices and Consumer Protection Act


Prepaid Purchase Cards Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 185/2016, July 20, 2016]






Definitions




1


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Business Practices and Consumer Protection Act

.






Limitation on meaning of "prepaid purchase card"




1.1


For the purposes of Part 4.1 of the Act,
"prepaid purchase card"
does not include a prepaid purchase card issued by




(a)

a bank listed in Schedule I, II or III of the

Bank Act

(Canada), or




(b)

a company to which the

Trust and Loan Companies Act

(Canada) applies.

[en. B.C. Reg. 185/2016.]





Exemptions from expiry date prohibition




2


Section 56.2 (1)
[no expiry date]
of the Act does not apply to any of the following:




(a)

a prepaid purchase card that is issued or sold for a specific good or
service;




(b)

a prepaid purchase card that is issued or sold for a charitable
purpose;




(c)

a prepaid purchase card that is issued or sold




(i)

for a marketing, advertising or promotional purpose, and




(ii)

to a person who




(A)

provides nothing of value in exchange for the card, or




(B)

purchased the card for an amount less than its full monetary value.






Permitted fees in relation to prepaid purchase cards




3

(1)


A supplier may charge a fee




(a)

for replacing a lost or stolen prepaid purchase card, or




(b)

to customize a prepaid purchase card.




(2)

A supplier that sells a prepaid purchase card entitling a consumer to
apply it towards purchasing goods or services from multiple
unaffiliated sellers may do the following:




(a)

at the time the card is purchased, charge a maximum purchase fee of
$1.50;




(b)

subject to section 4 (2) and subsection (3) of this section, charge a
post-purchase fee in relation to the card if




(i)

the fee is charged no earlier than




(A)

15 months after the end of the month in which the card is purchased,
if the consumer holding the card does not deliver written notice to
the supplier requesting an extension in that 15th month, or




(B)

18 months after the end of the month in which the card is purchased,
if the consumer holding the card delivers written notice to the
supplier requesting an extension in the 15th month after the end of
the month in which the card is purchased, and




(ii)

the fee does not exceed $2.50 per month.




(3)

A post-purchase fee permitted under subsection (2) (b) may be charged
only as a deduction from the balance of the monetary value remaining
on the prepaid purchase card.






Manner of providing information required under section 56.4 of the Act




4

(1)


At the time a prepaid purchase card is issued or sold, the supplier
must provide the information required under section 56.4 (1) of the
Act clearly and in a manner that is likely to bring it to the
attention of the person to whom the card is issued or sold.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), a supplier who sells a prepaid
purchase card entitling a consumer to apply it towards purchasing
goods or services from multiple unaffiliated sellers and wishes to
charge post-purchase fees permitted under section 3 (2) (b) in respect
of that card must prominently display on the card itself, in a clear
and comprehensible manner, the information described in section 3 (2)
(b).



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Business Practices and Consumer Protection Act

, S.B.C. 2004, c. 2, sections 56.5, 194 and 201]



