







B.C. Reg. 97/2013

O.C. 130/2013


Deposited March 1, 2013

effective April 1, 2013






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.

See “Amendments Not in Force” and the


Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024

for

amendments effective after March 5, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Provincial Sales Tax Act


Provincial Sales Tax Exemption and Refund Regulation


[Last amended July 1, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 128/2023 and includes amendments
by B.C. Reg. 165/2023]




Part 1 — Definitions and Interpretation





Definitions




1

(1)


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Provincial Sales Tax Act

;



"alcohol-containing food product"

means a food product that contains alcohol and also contains
ingredients that make the food product unsuitable for use as an
intoxicant;



"First Nation land"

means land that is




(a)

a reserve, or




(b)

treaty lands of a treaty first nation




(i)

that were, immediately before the effective date of the treaty first
nation's final agreement, a reserve or surrendered lands, and




(ii)

in respect of which a First Nation individual's property is exempt
from taxation under section 87 of the

Indian Act

(Canada) or under a provision of a final agreement equivalent to that
section;



"fishing equipment"

includes the tangible personal property described in Schedule 3
[Fishing Equipment for Commercial Fishing Purpose]
;



"francophone school"

has the same meaning as in the

School Act

;



"heating oil"

has the same meaning as in the

Motor Fuel Tax Act

;


"mineral"
means




(a)

metal ore or a natural substance that can be mined and that




(i)

occurs in fragments or particles lying on, above or adjacent to the
bedrock source from which it is derived, and is commonly described as
talus,




(ii)

is in the place or position in which it was originally formed or
deposited, or




(iii)

is loose, fragmentary or broken rock or float that, by decomposition
or erosion of rock, is found in wash, loose earth, gravel or sand, and




(b)

tailings, building and construction stone, marble, shale, clay, sand
and gravel,


but does not include petroleum, natural gas, volcanic ash, earth,
soil, marl or peat;



"Nisg̱a'a Nation"

has the same meaning as in the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement, as defined in
the

Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement Act

;


"obtain"
means,




(a)

in respect of tangible personal property,




(i)

to purchase the tangible personal property,




(ii)

to lease the tangible personal property as a lessee,




(iii)

to bring or send into British Columbia, or receive delivery of in
British Columbia, the tangible personal property, or




(iv)

to receive the tangible personal property as a gift, and




(b)

in respect of Part 4 software, to purchase or use the Part 4 software;



"Part 3 software"

means software that is subject to tax or exempt from tax under Part 3
of the Act;



"Part 4 software"

means software other than Part 3 software;



"practitioner"

has the same meaning as in the

Pharmacy Operations and Drug Scheduling Act

;



"prescription"

means any of the following:




(a)

a formula or direction, given by a practitioner, for a remedy or
treatment for a disease or disorder;




(b)

an assessment record or a contact lens record, as those terms are
defined in the Opticians Regulation, B.C. Reg. 118/2010;



"primary aquaculture product"

means an aquatic animal or aquatic plant grown or raised for sale, but
does not include a processed or manufactured product or an aquarium
specimen;



"Provincial school"

has the same meaning as in the

School Act

;



"qualifying agricultural use"

has the same meaning as in the Classification of Land as a Farm
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 411/95;



"qualifying aquaculturist"

means a person




(a)

who carries on an aquaculture business,




(b)

who holds a licence issued under




(i)

section 24 (1) of the

Fisheries Act

(British Columbia), or




(ii)

the Pacific Aquaculture Regulations made under the

Fisheries Act

(Canada), and




(c)

in respect of whom either of the following applies:




(i)

the person produced




(A)

under any licence referred to in paragraph (b) that is held by that
person,




(B)

during the immediately preceding calendar year, and




(C)

at that person's place of production,


primary aquaculture products with a gross market value of not less
than $7 500;




(ii)

the person reasonably expects to produce




(A)

under any licence referred to in paragraph (b) that is held by that
person,




(B)

in the calendar year in which the last licence referred to in
paragraph (b) was issued to that person or in one of the 4 calendar
years following that calendar year, and




(C)

at that person's place of production,


primary aquaculture products with a gross market value of not less
than $7 500;



"qualifying commercial fisher"

means a person who




(a)

fishes for commercial purposes under the authority of the

Fisheries Act

(Canada), and




(b)

received, in the immediately preceding calendar year, from commercial
fishing in waters in or adjacent to British Columbia,




(i)

not less than $10 000 in gross income, or




(ii)

at least 51% of the person's total gross income;



"qualifying farmer"

means any of the following:




(a)

a person who is




(i)

an owner, as defined in section 1 (1) of the

Assessment Act

, of land classified as a farm under that Act, or




(ii)

a lessee of land classified as a farm under that Act;




(b)

a person




(i)

who is




(A)

an owner, as defined in section 1 (1) of the

Assessment Act

, of land, or




(B)

a lessee of land,




(ii)

who uses less than 0.8 hectares of the land referred to in
subparagraph (i) (A) or (B), as applicable, for one or more of the
following purposes:




(A)

beekeeping;




(B)

mushroom growing;




(C)

egg production;




(D)

hog, poultry or rabbit farming;




(E)

fur farming, and




(iii)

who received, in the immediately preceding calendar year, not less
than $2 500 in gross income from the person's use of that land for any
of the purposes referred to in subparagraph (ii);




(c)

a First Nation individual who




(i)

uses First Nation land for a qualifying agricultural use, and




(ii)

received, in the immediately preceding calendar year, not less than $2
500 in gross income from the qualifying agricultural use of the First
Nation land;




(d)

a person who uses land located outside British Columbia for a
qualifying agricultural use and, in the immediately preceding calendar
year,




(i)

if the area of the land is less than 0.8 hectares, received not less
than $10 000 in gross income from the qualifying agricultural use of
the land,




(ii)

if the area of the land is not less than 0.8 hectares but not more
than 4 hectares, received not less than $2 500 in gross income from
the qualifying agricultural use of the land, or




(iii)

if the area of the land is more than 4 hectares, received gross income
from the qualifying agricultural use of the land that is not less than
the total of $2 500 plus 5% of the assessed value of the area of land
in excess of 4 hectares, for the purpose of real property taxation, in
the jurisdiction in which the land is located;



"qualifying school"

means any of the following:




(a)

a school, as defined in the

School Act

;




(b)

a francophone school;




(c)

a Provincial school;




(d)

an independent school, as defined in the

Independent School Act

;




(e)

a school operated by a participating First Nation or a Community
Education Authority established by one or more participating First
Nations under the


First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act


(Canada);




(f)

a school operated by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, or a treaty first nation,
under its own laws;




(g)

an institution, as defined in the

College and Institute Act

;




(h)

a university;




(i)

an institution that holds a designation certificate or an interim
designation certificate as defined in the

Private Training Act

;


"reserve"
has the same meaning as in the

Indian Act

(Canada);



"residential dwelling"

means any of the following:




(a)

a house, a cottage or another detached dwelling;




(b)

a duplex;




(c)

an apartment, a condominium or a townhouse;




(d)

an apartment building, or a condominium or townhouse complex, that is
used solely for the purpose of single family dwellings;




(e)

an assisted living residence, as defined in the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

;




(f)

a long-term residential care facility;




(g)

a part of a multi-use building that is used for a residential use;




(h)

land that is attributable to a building, or part of a building,
referred to in paragraphs (a) to (g) and that is used for a
residential use,


but does not include any of the following:




(i)

a building, or part of a building, referred to in paragraphs (a) to
(g) while the building or part is under original construction;




(j)

that part of a hotel, motel, lodge or resort, or of another building
or part of a building, providing short-term lodging;




(k)

a hospital or other institutional building;




(l)

a bunk house or camp building, for use in connection with a commercial
or construction project;




(m)

those parts of a building that are used for any purpose other than a
residential use;



"residential energy product"

means any of the following:




(a)

electricity;




(b)

natural gas;




(c)

heating oil that is coloured within the meaning of section 16.1 of the

Motor Fuel Tax Act

;




(c.1)

butane;




(c.2)

naphtha;




(d)

kerosene;




(d.1)

methanol;




(e)

heat, including transferred energy that results in cooling;




(f)

steam;



"residential use"

does not include use for a business, commercial or industrial purpose;


"spouse"
means a person who




(a)

is married to another person, or




(b)

is living with another person in a marriage-like relationship, and has
been living in that relationship for a continuous period of at least 2
years;



"surrendered lands"

has the same meaning as in the

Indian Act

(Canada).




(2)

The definition of "month" in section 1
[definitions]
of the Act does not apply for the purposes of this regulation.




(3)

In Schedules 2
[Tangible Personal Property for Farm Purpose]
and 4
[Tangible Personal Property for Aquaculture Purpose]
,

"qualifying all-terrain vehicle"

means an all-terrain vehicle that




(a)

is self-propelled,




(b)

has at least 4 wheels,




(c)

is designed primarily for use on unprepared surfaces, and




(d)

is not eligible to be licensed for use on a highway in British
Columbia, except in accordance with section 24.03
[utility vehicles]
of the Motor Vehicle Act Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58.


[am. B.C. Regs. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 1; 117/2014, Sch. 4, s. 1;
76/2016, Sch. 2, s. 1; 148/2016.]






Interpretation of Schedule 2




2

(1)


The tangible personal property described in Schedule 2
[Tangible Personal Property for Farm Purpose]
does not include hoop house frames.




(2)

In Schedule 2, the titles of Tables 1 to 14




(a)

are not part of this regulation, and




(b)

are to be considered to have been added editorially for convenience of
reference only.






Heat pump




2.1


For the purposes of the definition of "heat pump" in section 1 of the
Act, a heat pump means




(a)

a heat pump unit and any parts or components included as part of the
heat pump unit on the initial purchase of the unit, or




(b)

a hybrid heat pump unit that




(i)

is a single factory-integrated unit, and




(ii)

combines a heat pump and a furnace, boiler, water heater or similar
system


and any parts or components included as part of the hybrid heat pump
unit on the initial purchase of the unit.

[en. B.C. Reg. 206/2022, s. 1.]



Part 2 — Exemptions in Relation to Tangible Personal Property



Division 1 — Health and Medical Products and Equipment for Individuals
with Disabilities





Drugs and health products




3

(1)


The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act:




(a)

drugs specified in Schedule I or IA of the Drug Schedules Regulation,
B.C. Reg. 9/98;




(b)

a vaccine that is




(i)

specified in Schedule II of the Drug Schedules Regulation, B.C. Reg.
9/98, or




(ii)

a veterinary drug, as defined in section 1 of the

Veterinary Drugs Act

;




(c)

drugs and other substances for the treatment, mitigation or prevention
of a disease or disorder, if the drugs and other substances are




(i)

sold on the prescription of a practitioner, or




(ii)

provided as part of a promotional distribution by a pharmaceutical
company to a practitioner;




(d)

tangible personal property that is the result of a medical imaging
procedure;




(e)

drugs and other substances that alleviate pain and are in a form
designed to be taken internally, whether orally or otherwise, or
applied externally;




(f)

artificial limbs and orthopaedic appliances;




(g)

hearing aids;




(h)

dentures, including adhesives, liners and repair kits for dentures;




(i)

dental and optical appliances, if




(i)

the appliances are sold on the prescription of a practitioner or a
person registered as a member of the College of Opticians of British
Columbia, or




(ii)

the appliances are provided as part of a promotional distribution to a
practitioner or a person registered as a member of the College of
Opticians of British Columbia and are otherwise available to patients
only by prescription;




(j)

clip-on sunglasses, if the sunglasses are




(i)

obtained together with eyeglasses that are exempt under paragraph (i)
of this subsection, and




(ii)

specifically designed to be attached to the eyeglasses;




(k)

sanitary napkins, tampons, sanitary belts, menstrual cups or other
similar products, advertised or marketed substantially for feminine
hygiene purposes.




(2)

The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part:




(a)

vitamins and dietary supplements or adjuncts, in a form designed to be
ingested orally, if the vitamins, supplements or adjuncts are obtained
for human consumption;




(b)

nicotine gum, nicotine patches and similar items, advertised or
marketed as products that assist an individual to stop smoking
tobacco, if the gum, patches or other similar items are obtained by or
on behalf of an individual for the individual's own use.

[am. B.C. Reg. 227/2018, s. (c).]





Household medical aids




4

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), drugs and medicines, including those in the
form of salves, ointments, nasal sprays, inhalants, antiseptics,
liniments, foot powders, germicides, laxatives, cough syrups and cold
and flu remedies, that are




(a)

advertised or marketed as products for the treatment, mitigation or
prevention of a disease or disorder in humans, and




(b)

commonly known as household medical aids


are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to the following:




(a)

sunscreen;




(b)

oral hygiene products, including toothpaste and mouthwash;




(c)

toiletries, shaving products, depilatories and fragrances;




(d)

soaps and moisturizers, unless the soap or moisturizer is medicated
and is advertised or marketed as a product for the treatment,
mitigation or prevention of a particular skin condition;




(e)

hair products, unless the hair product is advertised or marketed as a
product for the treatment of head lice;




(f)

beauty products and cosmetics.




(3)

The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part, if obtained for use in the
treatment of humans:




(a)

bunion, callus and corn pads;




(b)

first aid materials.






Exception — cannabis




4.1


The exemptions under sections 3 and 4, other than under section 3 (1)
(a), do not apply to cannabis within the meaning of the

Cannabis Control and Licensing Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 212/2018, s. 1.]





Diabetic and ostomy supplies




5


The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part:




(a)

syringes, needles, autolets, glucose monitoring units and diabetic
testing materials obtained by a diabetic, or an individual on behalf
of a diabetic, for the diabetic's own use;




(b)

material, equipment and supplies




(i)

designed for use by individuals who, as a result of surgery, are in
the permanent condition of being able to dispose of their bodily
wastes only through a surgically constructed bodily orifice, and




(ii)

obtained by an individual with such a condition, or another individual
on behalf of the individual, for that individual's own use,


but not including skin creams, deodorants, cleaning materials or any
other products that by their general nature are generally used for
other purposes or by other individuals.






Human parts and reproductive products




6


The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act:




(a)

human organs;




(b)

human tissue;




(c)

human semen;




(d)

human ova;




(e)

human blood;




(f)

human blood constituents.






Devices for use in transportation of individuals with disabilities




7

(1)


The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part, if obtained for use in the
transportation of individuals with disabilities:




(a)

wheelchairs and carriages, whether or not power-operated, and parts
and accessories designed for them;




(b)

special controls to enable individuals with disabilities to operate
electronic wheelchairs and carriages;




(c)

patient lifters;




(d)

specially designed household elevators, including wheelchair
elevators, for individuals with disabilities, and materials obtained
for use to build specially designed household elevators for
individuals with disabilities, if the elevators become real property
upon installation;




(e)

power-operated and manually operated lifts designed to facilitate
entry to otherwise inaccessible buildings, structures or vehicles,
including automatic tailgates or side lifts for motor vehicles;




(f)

specially designed ramps to move a wheelchair and the occupant into a
motor vehicle or building;




(g)

auxiliary driving controls that facilitate the operation of motor
vehicles by individuals with disabilities;




(h)

car-top lifts for lifting and storing wheelchairs on top of motor
vehicles.




(2)

Parts and materials are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the
Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if the parts or materials




(a)

are obtained solely for the purpose of




(i)

modifying a motor vehicle, other than a multijurisdictional vehicle,
to facilitate the use of the vehicle by, or the transportation of, an
individual using a wheelchair, or




(ii)

equipping a motor vehicle, other than a multijurisdictional vehicle,
with an auxiliary driving control to facilitate the operation of the
vehicle by an individual with a disability, and




(b)

are subsequently attached to, or become part of, the motor vehicle.






Medical supplies and equipment for individuals with disabilities




8

(1)


The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act:




(a)

equipment designed solely for use by an individual with a permanent
disability;




(b)

tangible personal property designed to be implanted in an individual's
body;




(c)

tangible personal property designed to be attached to an individual's
body for the purpose of maintaining the individual's bodily functions;




(d)

hospital-style beds, if the beds are sold on the prescription of a
practitioner;




(e)

injection locators;




(f)

commodes and hip belts for use with a commode;




(g)

crutches;




(h)

cannulae;




(i)

syringe injectors;




(j)

transfer boards and transfer chairs;




(k)

hernia trusses;




(l)

lift chairs designed to facilitate standing to sitting or sitting to
standing, or both.




(2)

Equipment advertised or marketed for use solely by individuals with
disabilities is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other
than Division 9 of that Part, if the equipment is obtained by or on
behalf of an individual with a disability for the individual's own
use.

[am. B.C. Reg. 124/2015.]



Division 2 — Clothing





Children's clothing and footwear




9

(1)


In this section:



"adult-sized clothing or footwear"

means the following, in sizes designed for adults:




(a)

garments;




(b)

hosiery, hats, ties, belts, suspenders, mittens and gloves;




(c)

uniforms, including uniforms for school, sports or recreational
activities;




(d)

footwear;



"children's clothing"

means the following:




(a)

garments designed for babies, including bibs, baby blankets, shawls,
receiving blankets, bunting bags, cloth diapers, diaper liners,
plastic pants and rubber pants;




(b)

children's garments that are




(i)

designed for girls and of a size not greater than the size that is
girls' size 16 according to the national standard applicable to the
garments,




(ii)

designed for boys and of a size not greater than the size that is
boys' size 20 according to the national standard applicable to the
garments, or




(iii)

if no national standard applies to the garments, advertised or
marketed as being of a size designed for children;




(c)

hosiery, hats, ties, belts, suspenders, mittens and gloves in sizes
designed for children;




(d)

uniforms in sizes designed for children, including uniforms for
school, sports or recreational activities;



"children's footwear"

means footwear designed




(a)

for babies, or




(b)

for girls or boys and that has an insole length of 24.25 cm or less;



"national standard"

means a standard of the National Standards of Canada, as they read on
April 1, 2013, in the subject area CAN/CGSB-49, Garment Sizes,
published by the Canadian General Standards Board;



"youth organization"

means




(a)

a society as defined in the

Societies Act

,




(b)

a registered charity, or




(c)

a school


that administers a team, activity or program that includes children
under 15 years of age.




(2)

Subject to subsection (4), children's clothing and children's footwear
are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), adult-sized clothing or footwear is exempt
from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act if the adult-sized clothing
or footwear is obtained for a child under 15 years of age.




(4)

The exemptions under subsections (2) and (3) do not apply to the
following:




(a)

aprons and smocks, if the apron or smock is designed to be worn over
and to protect other clothing;




(b)

athletic equipment, including supports and pads;




(c)

costumes sold with masks, toys or accessories;




(d)

disposable diapers;




(e)

gloves advertised or marketed primarily for use in sports, other than
skiing or snowboarding;




(f)

handkerchiefs;




(g)

ice skates, roller skates and inline skates;




(h)

scarves, other than scarves sold as part of a uniform;




(i)

shoe insoles and shoelaces;




(j)

snowshoes;




(k)

sport pinnies and scrimmage vests;




(l)

swimfins.




(5)

Subsection (3) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (1) (a)

[provisions providing exemptions in relation to tangible personal
property]

of the Act.




(6)

For the purposes of section 145 (1.1)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that adult-sized
clothing or footwear is exempt under subsection (3) of this section,
the collector is required to obtain all of the following:




(a)

the full name, address and telephone number of that person;




(b)

the following information:




(i)

if the adult-sized clothing or footwear is obtained by or on behalf of
a youth organization, the name of the youth organization;




(ii)

in any other case, the full name of the child for whom the adult-sized
clothing or footwear is being obtained;




(c)

the purchase price of the adult-sized clothing or footwear;




(d)

a declaration in a form acceptable to the director.

[am. B.C. Reg. 211/2015, s. 30.]





Used clothing and footwear




10


An item of used clothing or used footwear is exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act if




(a)

the item was previously sold at a retail sale and previously used as
clothing or footwear, and




(b)

the purchase price of the item is less than $100.






Clothing patterns and related materials




11

(1)


Clothing patterns are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), yarn, natural fibres, synthetic thread and
fabric that are commonly used in making or repairing clothing are
exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9
of that Part.




(3)

The exemption under subsection (2) does not apply to tangible personal
property described in Schedule 5.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 2.]



Division 3 — School Supplies





Definition




12


In this Division,
"obtain"
does not include leasing tangible personal property as a lessee.






School supplies obtained for use of student




13


The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act if
obtained for the use of a student who is enrolled in an educational
program provided by a qualifying school or who is being educated in
accordance with Division 4
[Home Education]
of Part 2 of the

School Act

:




(a)

bags specifically designed to carry school books and supplies, other
than the following:




(i)

attaché cases;




(ii)

backpacks;




(iii)

bags with wheels;




(iv)

briefcases;




(v)

knapsacks;




(vi)

sports bags;




(vii)

tote bags;




(b)

drawing instruments, including geometry instruments;




(c)

erasers;




(d)

glue;




(e)

ink;




(f)

lined, unlined, drawing, graph and music manuscript paper;




(g)

paints and paint brushes, other than theatrical make-up and brushes
and carrying cases associated with that make-up;




(h)

pencil and wax crayons;




(i)

pencils;




(j)

pens, other than fountain pens and nibs;




(k)

ring binders;




(l)

rulers;




(m)

school art portfolios;




(n)

work books.






School supplies obtained by qualifying school, school board or similar
authority




14

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the following are exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if
obtained by a qualifying school, school board or similar authority for
the use of students or for use in instructing students:




(a)

cellulose tape;




(b)

chalk;




(c)

charts, diagrams and maps;




(d)

lesson notes, précis, examinations, test papers, answer keys, work
sheets and other similar materials, and material to manufacture those
materials;




(e)

paper clips;




(f)

pens and markers for use on whiteboards;




(g)

rubber bands;




(h)

software obtained for use




(i)

on a computer, and




(ii)

substantially as a teaching aid for students;




(i)

staples;




(j)

visual or audio aids and recordings, other than the following:




(i)

educational toys, geometric forms, models, display stands and felt
boards;




(ii)

equipment obtained for use to record, play, project, view or access
audio or video;




(k)

wooden pencil boxes;




(l)

supplies and materials obtained for consumption in home economics
courses, other than the following:




(i)

cutlery, dishes, pots and pans;




(ii)

table linen and towels;




(iii)

bobbins, needles, scissors, sewing machine attachments and tape
measures;




(iv)

tools and equipment;




(m)

supplies and materials obtained for consumption in woodworking, metal
working or other industrial arts courses, other than tools and
equipment including drill bits, re-usable electrical and electronic
parts, grinding wheels and saw blades;




(n)

animals, either living or dead, and parts of animals, obtained for use
in scientific research or experiments;




(o)

supplies and materials, including chemicals, obtained for consumption
in science courses, other than the following:




(i)

alcohol burner wicks;




(ii)

containers obtained for use as hazardous waste disposal units for
phlebotomy sharps;




(iii)

fossils, rocks, minerals and other geological specimens;




(iv)

gas lighter flints;




(v)

glassware;




(vi)

lubricants obtained for use to maintain and prevent spotting, staining
and rusting of surgical instruments;




(vii)

needles;




(viii)

non-disposable gloves;




(ix)

osteological preparations;




(x)

animal feed;




(xi)

supplies for animals;




(xii)

prepared microscope slides;




(xiii)

preserved specimens for display;




(xiv)

skeletons;




(xv)

surgical instruments;




(xvi)

syringes;




(xvii)

tools and equipment;




(p)

supplies and materials obtained for consumption in arts courses, other
than the following:




(i)

instrument picks and strings;




(ii)

tools and equipment;




(q)

supplies and materials obtained for consumption in commercial or
business courses, other than tools and equipment;




(r)

supplies and materials obtained for consumption in vocational training
courses, other than tools and equipment.




(2)

The following are not exempt under subsection (1):




(a)

chalkboards, chalkboard erasers and chalkboard cleaning materials;




(b)

whiteboards, whiteboard erasers and whiteboard cleaning materials;




(c)

software obtained for use




(i)

on a computer, and




(ii)

by teachers to assess or evaluate students or to report on students'
progress;




(d)

plaques, trophies, awards, certificates and stickers.




(3)

Photocopier toner obtained by a qualifying school, school board or
similar authority is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act
in respect of the portion of the photocopier toner that can reasonably
be attributed to the use of the toner in making copies




(a)

for the use of students, or




(b)

for use in instructing students.




(4)

Subsections (1) and (3) of this section are prescribed for the
purposes of section 145 (1) (a)

[provisions providing exemptions in relation to tangible personal
property]

of the Act.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 2, s. 1.]



Division 4 — Publications





Definitions




15


In this Division:



"advertising and promotional content"

, in relation to a magazine, periodical or newspaper, includes the
following:




(a)

all advertisements, promotional material and promotional articles,
irrespective of who bears the cost for the publication of the
advertisement, promotional material or promotional article;




(b)

all material and articles paid for or sponsored by a person who is not
an owner or publisher of the magazine, periodical or newspaper;




(c)

maps, charts, pictures and diagrams that are related to, or are a part
of, the advertising and promotional content;



"editorials, news and articles of local or common interest content"

, in relation to a newspaper, includes the following:




(a)

maps, charts, pictures and diagrams that are related to, or are a part
of, that content;




(b)

the masthead;




(c)

the title page;




(d)

public service listings of events, activities or attractions for which
no consideration of any kind is paid or exchanged and for which
editorial control rests solely with the publisher;




(e)

business market quotations;




(f)

sports scores;




(g)

movie, theatre and other reviews;




(h)

weather forecasts;




(i)

comics;




(j)

crosswords and similar puzzles;




(k)

horoscopes;




(l)

television listings;




(m)

letters to the editor,


but does not include excluded content and advertising and promotional
content;



"excluded content"

, in relation to a publication, means covers, indices, tables of
contents, borders and duplicated or blank pages;



"excluded publication"

means the following:




(a)

directories, programs, price lists, timetables, rate books, reports,
albums, course calendars, date calendars, sports or recreation
calendars, brochures and pamphlets;




(b)

a publication that is published for the same or a similar purpose as a
publication referred to in paragraph (a);




(c)

catalogues and similar publications whose primary purpose is to
describe, or to promote or encourage the purchase, use or consumption
of, tangible personal property, software, services or real property;


"magazine"
means a printed and bound publication in a magazine format that is
issued at regular intervals each year by




(a)

a professional body,




(b)

a trade or industrial organization,




(c)

a commercial publishing firm,




(d)

a not-for-profit corporation, or




(e)

an employer to the employer's employees,


but does not include an excluded publication;


"newspaper"
means a printed and unbound publication in a newspaper format that is
published at regular intervals each year, but does not include the
following:




(a)

an excluded publication;




(b)

advertising material known as flyers, or advertising circulars, even
if the flyers or advertising circulars are sold or given away as part
of the publication;


"periodical"
means a printed and bound publication in a periodical format that is
issued at regular intervals each year by




(a)

a professional body,




(b)

a trade or industrial organization,




(c)

a commercial publishing firm, or




(d)

a not-for-profit corporation,


but does not include an excluded publication;



"technical, literary, editorial and pictorial content"

, in relation to a magazine or periodical, includes




(a)

maps, charts, pictures and diagrams that are related to, or are a part
of, that content,




(b)

the masthead, and




(c)

the title page,


but does not include excluded content and advertising and promotional
content.






Publications




16

(1)


The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act:




(a)

a printed and bound book that




(i)

contains no advertising, and




(ii)

is published solely for educational, technical, cultural or literary
purposes,


but not a directory, price list, timetable, rate book, catalogue,
report, fashion book, album or any other similar book;




(b)

an employee newsletter;




(c)

a student yearbook;




(d)

sheet music;




(e)

a magazine or periodical if at least 10% of the content is composed of
technical, literary, editorial and pictorial content;




(f)

a newspaper if at least 20% of the content is composed of editorials,
news and articles of local or common interest content.




(2)

If a publication is sold or given away with another publication, a
determination of whether each publication qualifies for an exemption
under subsection (1) (e) or (f) must be based on the content of each
publication considered separately.






Calculation of content of magazines, periodicals and newspapers




17

(1)


For the purposes of section 16 (1) (e), the technical, literary,
editorial and pictorial content of a magazine or periodical must be
calculated by




(a)

determining the area of all the pages of the magazine or periodical,




(b)

determining the area of the excluded content of the magazine or
periodical,




(c)

subtracting the area determined under paragraph (b) of this subsection
from the area determined under paragraph (a),




(d)

determining the area of the technical, literary, editorial and
pictorial content of the magazine or periodical, and




(e)

calculating, as a percentage, the proportion that the area determined
under paragraph (d) of this subsection is to the area that results
from the calculation under paragraph (c).




(2)

For the purposes of section 16 (1) (f), the editorials, news and
articles of local or common interest content of a newspaper must be
calculated by




(a)

determining the area of all the pages of the newspaper,




(b)

determining the area of the excluded content of the newspaper,




(c)

subtracting the area determined under paragraph (b) of this subsection
from the area determined under paragraph (a),




(d)

determining the area of the editorials, news and articles of local or
common interest content of the newspaper, and




(e)

calculating, as a percentage, the proportion that the area determined
under paragraph (d) of this subsection is to the area that results
from the calculation under paragraph (c).




Division 5 — Gifts, Prizes, Draws and Awards





Gifts




17.1

(1)


In this section:


"person"
does not include a registered charity;



"tangible personal property"

does not include a vehicle, boat or aircraft.




(2)

Subject to this section, a person is exempt from tax imposed under
section 49

[tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for use]

of the Act in respect of tangible personal property if the person
received the tangible personal property as a gift from a donor.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), the exemption under subsection (2) applies
to a person in respect of tangible personal property only if the donor
of the tangible personal property




(a)

paid tax under the Act or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the tangible personal property and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under those Acts, a refund of that tax,




(b)

paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of
Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

in respect of the tangible personal property and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a
credit or rebate for that tax,




(c)

paid sales tax in respect of the tangible personal property to another
province and has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain a refund
of or a credit or rebate for that sales tax,




(d)

received, before April 1, 2013, the tangible personal property as a
gift in British Columbia, or




(e)

was exempt, when that donor obtained the tangible personal property,
from tax




(i)

under the

Social Service Tax Act

, or




(ii)

under the Act, other than under section 26

[tangible personal property shipped outside British Columbia]

of this regulation.




(4)

The exemption under subsection (2) does not apply to a person in
respect of tangible personal property if




(a)

the donor of the tangible personal property paid tax in respect of the
tangible personal property only under one or both of section 51

[tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for
temporary use]

of the Act and section 12
[calculation of tax if use in British Columbia temporary]
of the

Social Service Tax Act

, and




(b)

the total amount of tax referred to in paragraph (a) of this
subsection is less than the amount of tax that, but for subsection (2)
of this section, would be payable by the person under section 49 of
the Act in respect of the tangible personal property.

[en. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 3.]





Gifts between family members




18

(1)


In this section:


"donor"
, in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft, means the related
individual from whom the person referred to in subsection (2) (a) or
(b) received the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a gift;



"related individual"

includes a sibling.




(2)

Subject to this section,




(a)

a person is exempt from tax imposed under sections 49

[tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for use]

and 50

[tax on registration of vehicle brought into British Columbia]

of the Act in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft if the person
received the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a gift from a related
individual, and




(b)

a person is exempt from tax imposed under section 100

[tax on gift of vehicle, boat or aircraft in British Columbia]

of the Act in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft if the person
receives the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a gift from a related
individual.




(3)

Subject to subsection (5), the exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and
(b) apply to a person in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft only
if the donor of the vehicle, boat or aircraft




(a)

paid tax under the Act, the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under those Acts, a refund of that tax,




(b)

paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of
Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a
credit or rebate for that tax,




(c)

paid sales tax in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft to another
province and has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain a refund
of or a credit or rebate for that sales tax,




(d)

received, before April 1, 2013, the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a
gift in British Columbia, or




(e)

was exempt, when that donor obtained the vehicle, boat or aircraft,
from tax




(i)

under the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

, or




(ii)

under the Act, other than under any of the following provisions of
this regulation:




(A)

section 23

[vehicle, boat or aircraft brought into British Columbia for gift]

;




(B)

section 24
[vehicle purchased for use outside British Columbia]
;




(C)

section 25
[aircraft purchased for use outside British Columbia]
;




(D)

section 26

[tangible personal property shipped outside British Columbia]

.




(4)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b) do not apply to a
person in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft if the donor of the
vehicle, boat or aircraft




(a)

received the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a gift during the 12 months
before the date on which the donor gave that vehicle, boat or aircraft
as a gift to the person referred to in subsection (2) (a) or (b), and




(b)

was exempt under subsection (2) (a) or (b) from tax imposed under the
Act in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft,


unless the donor received the vehicle, boat or aircraft referred to in
paragraph (a) of this subsection as a gift from the person referred to
in subsection (2) (a) or (b).




(5)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b) do not apply to a
person in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft if




(a)

the donor of the vehicle, boat or aircraft paid tax in respect of the
vehicle, boat or aircraft only under one or both of section 51

[tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for
temporary use]

of the Act and section 12
[calculation of tax if use in British Columbia temporary]
of the

Social Service Tax Act

, and




(b)

the total amount of tax referred to in paragraph (a) of this
subsection is less than the amount of tax that, but for subsection (2)
(a) or (b) of this section, would be payable by the person under
section 49, 50 or 100 of the Act, as applicable, in respect of the
vehicle, boat or aircraft.




(6)

For the purposes of section 30 (7) (a)

[evidence required to claim exemption in relation to tax payable in
respect of vehicle]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that a vehicle is
exempt under subsection (2) (a) or (b) of this section, the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia is required to obtain a declaration in
a form acceptable to the director.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 4.]





Registered charities




19

(1)


Subject to this section,




(a)

a registered charity is exempt from tax imposed under sections 49

[tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for use]

and 50

[tax on registration of vehicle brought into British Columbia]

of the Act in respect of tangible personal property if the registered
charity received the tangible personal property as a gift from a
donor, and




(b)

a registered charity is exempt from tax imposed under section 100

[tax on gift of vehicle, boat or aircraft in British Columbia]

of the Act in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft if the registered
charity receives the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a gift from a donor.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), the exemptions under subsection (1) (a) and
(b) apply to a registered charity in respect of tangible personal
property only if the donor of the tangible personal property




(a)

paid tax under the Act, the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the tangible personal property and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under those Acts, a refund of that tax,




(b)

paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of
Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

in respect of the tangible personal property and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a
credit or rebate for that tax,




(c)

paid sales tax in respect of the tangible personal property to another
province and has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain a refund
of or a credit or rebate for that sales tax,




(d)

received, before April 1, 2013, the tangible personal property as a
gift in British Columbia, or




(e)

was exempt, when that donor obtained the tangible personal property,
from tax




(i)

under the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

, or




(ii)

under the Act, other than under any of the following provisions of
this regulation:




(A)

section 23

[vehicle, boat or aircraft brought into British Columbia for gift]

;




(B)

section 24
[vehicle purchased for use outside British Columbia]
;




(C)

section 25
[aircraft purchased for use outside British Columbia]
;




(D)

section 26

[tangible personal property shipped outside British Columbia]

.




(3)

The exemptions under subsection (1) (a) and (b) do not apply to a
person in respect of tangible personal property if




(a)

the donor of the tangible personal property paid tax in respect of the
tangible personal property only under one or both of section 51

[tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for
temporary use]

of the Act and section 12
[calculation of tax if use in British Columbia temporary]
of the

Social Service Tax Act

, and




(b)

the total amount of tax referred to in paragraph (a) of this
subsection is less than the amount of tax that, but for subsection (1)
(a) or (b) of this section, would be payable by the person under
section 49, 50 or 100 of the Act, as applicable, in respect of the
tangible personal property.




(4)

For the purposes of section 30 (7) (a)

[evidence required to claim exemption in relation to tax payable in
respect of vehicle]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that a vehicle is
exempt under subsection (1) (a) or (b) of this section, the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia is required to obtain a declaration in
a form acceptable to the director.






Prizes, draws and awards




20

(1)


In this section,
"donor"
, in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft, means the person from
whom the person referred to in subsection (2) (a) or (b) received the
vehicle, boat or aircraft.




(2)

Subject to this section,




(a)

a person is exempt from tax imposed under sections 49

[tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for use]

and 50

[tax on registration of vehicle brought into British Columbia]

of the Act in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft if the person
received the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a result of any of the
circumstances described in subsection (3) of this section, and




(b)

a person is exempt from tax imposed under section 100

[tax on gift of vehicle, boat or aircraft given in British Columbia]

of the Act in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft if the person
receives the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a result of any of the
circumstances described in subsection (3) of this section.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), the exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and
(b) apply to a person in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft only
if the person received the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a result of
any of the following circumstances:




(a)

a lawful lottery scheme within the meaning of section 207 of the

Criminal Code

;




(b)

a contest, game of chance or skill, or mixed chance and skill, or a
disposition by any mode of chance, skill or mixed chance and skill;




(c)

an achievement in a field of endeavour, including athletic or sporting
events;




(d)

a draw or awarding of a prize if the only consideration provided by
the person who received the vehicle, boat or aircraft is in the form
of an entrance or admission fee, a ticket fee or another similar
charge.




(4)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b) do not apply to a
person in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft if the person
received the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a result of a private
arrangement, including a wager, between 2 or more persons.




(5)

Subject to subsection (6), the exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and
(b) apply to a person in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft only
if the donor of the vehicle, boat or aircraft




(a)

paid tax under the Act, the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under those Acts, a refund of that tax,




(b)

paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of
Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a
credit or rebate for that tax,




(c)

paid sales tax in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft to another
province and has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain a refund
of or a credit or rebate for that sales tax,




(d)

received, before April 1, 2013, the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a
gift in British Columbia, or




(e)

was exempt, when that donor obtained the vehicle, boat or aircraft,
from tax




(i)

under the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

, or




(ii)

under the Act, other than under any of the following provisions of
this regulation:




(A)

section 23

[vehicle, boat or aircraft brought into British Columbia for gift]

;




(B)

section 24
[vehicle purchased for use outside British Columbia]
;




(C)

section 25
[aircraft purchased for use outside British Columbia]
;




(D)

section 26

[tangible personal property shipped outside British Columbia]

.




(6)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b) do not apply to a
person in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft if




(a)

the donor of the vehicle, boat or aircraft paid tax in respect of the
vehicle, boat or aircraft only under one or both of section 51

[tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for
temporary use]

of the Act and section 12
[calculation of tax if use in British Columbia temporary]
of the

Social Service Tax Act

, and




(b)

the total amount of tax referred to in paragraph (a) of this
subsection is less than the amount of tax that, but for subsection (2)
(a) or (b) of this section, would be payable by the person under
section 49, 50 or 100 of the Act, as applicable, in respect of the
vehicle, boat or aircraft.




(7)

For the purposes of section 30 (7) (a)

[evidence required to claim exemption in relation to tax payable in
respect of vehicle]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that a vehicle is
exempt under subsection (2) (a) or (b) of this section, the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia is required to obtain a declaration in
a form acceptable to the director.


[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 5 and App. 2, s. 2.]






Inheritance of tangible personal property




21


Tangible personal property transferred as part of the distribution of
a deceased individual's estate is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3
of the Act.




Division 6 — Tangible Personal Property Entering or Leaving British
Columbia





New resident's effects — tangible personal property




22

(1)


Tangible personal property is exempt from tax imposed under sections
49

[tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for use]

, 50

[tax on registration of vehicle brought into British Columbia]

and 55

[property brought into British Columbia from outside Canada]

of the Act if




(a)

the tangible personal property is brought or sent into British
Columbia, or delivery of the tangible personal property is received in
British Columbia, by an individual for use solely for a non-business
purpose,




(b)

the tangible personal property enters British Columbia within one year
of the individual becoming a resident of British Columbia, and




(c)

the tangible personal property is owned and has been owned by the
individual for a continuous period of at least 30 days before the
individual becomes a resident of British Columbia.




(1.1)

Tangible personal property is exempt from tax imposed under sections
49, 50 and 55 of the Act if




(a)

the tangible personal property is brought or sent into British
Columbia, or delivery of the tangible personal property is received in
British Columbia, by an individual for use solely for a non-business
purpose,




(b)

the individual became a resident of British Columbia on or after
March 11, 2019,




(c)

the tangible personal property enters British Columbia on or before
the earlier of




(i)

January 1, 2023, and




(ii)

the date that is one year after the date that the last order made
under section 58 of the

Quarantine Act

(Canada) in relation to COVID-19 ceases to have effect, and




(d)

the tangible personal property is owned and has been owned by the
individual for a continuous period of at least 30 days before the
individual becomes a resident of British Columbia.




(2)

Tangible personal property that qualified for an exemption under
subsection (1) or (1.1) on the entry date of the tangible personal
property and that is subsequently used for a business purpose is
exempt from tax imposed under section 82
[tax if property used for new purpose]
of the Act if




(a)

the use of the tangible personal property for a business purpose does
not begin within the first 6 months after the entry date of the
tangible personal property,




(b)

the tangible personal property




(i)

is not a vehicle, a boat or an aircraft, and




(ii)

was owned by the individual referred to in subsection (1) or (1.1) for
more than 3 years before the individual became a resident of British
Columbia, and




(c)

the individual referred to in subsection (1) or (1.1)




(i)

previously paid tax under the Act or the
Social Service Tax Act
in respect of the tangible personal property and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under those Acts, a refund of that tax,




(ii)

previously paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division
IV.1 of Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

in respect of the tangible personal property and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a
credit or rebate for that tax, or




(iii)

previously paid sales tax in respect of the tangible personal property
to another province and has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain
a refund of or a credit or rebate for that sales tax.

[am. B.C. Regs. 117/2014, Sch. 5; 260/2021.]





Vehicle, boat or aircraft brought into British Columbia for gift




23

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), a person who is a BC resident is
exempt from tax imposed under section 49

[tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for use]

of the Act in respect of a vehicle, a boat or an aircraft if the
person brings or sends into British Columbia, or receives delivery of
in British Columbia, the vehicle, boat or aircraft solely for the
purpose of giving that vehicle, boat or aircraft to another person as
a gift.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) applies to a person in respect of a
vehicle, a boat or an aircraft only if the person




(a)

previously paid tax under the Act, the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under those Acts, a refund of that tax,




(b)

previously paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division
IV.1 of Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a
credit or rebate for that tax,




(c)

previously paid sales tax in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft
to another province and has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain
a refund of or a credit or rebate for that sales tax,




(d)

received, before April 1, 2013, the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a
gift in British Columbia, or




(e)

was exempt, when that person obtained the vehicle, boat or aircraft,
from tax




(i)

under the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

, or




(ii)

under the Act, other than under any of the following provisions of
this regulation:




(A)

section 24
[vehicle purchased for use outside British Columbia]
;




(B)

section 25
[aircraft purchased for use outside British Columbia]
;




(C)

section 26

[tangible personal property shipped outside of British Columbia]

.




(3)

The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to a person in
respect of a vehicle, a boat or an aircraft if




(a)

the person previously paid tax in respect of the vehicle, boat or
aircraft only under one or both of section 51

[tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for
temporary use]

of the Act and section 12
[calculation of tax if use in British Columbia temporary]
of the

Social Service Tax Act

, and




(b)

the total amount of tax referred to in paragraph (a) of this
subsection is less than the amount of tax that, but for subsection (1)
of this section, would be payable by the person under section 49 of
the Act in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft.






Vehicle purchased for use outside British Columbia




24

(1)


In this section,
"qualifying vehicle"
means a vehicle that is registrable under the vehicle registration
legislation, but does not include a multijurisdictional vehicle or a
trailer that is used with a multijurisdictional vehicle.




(2)

A qualifying vehicle is exempt from tax imposed under section 37
[tax on purchase of tangible personal property]
of the Act if the qualifying vehicle




(a)

is purchased by




(i)

a person other than an individual, or




(ii)

an individual who does not reside or ordinarily reside in British
Columbia,




(b)

is purchased for use primarily outside British Columbia,




(c)

is not purchased for use in British Columbia, other than for a
non-business purpose, and




(d)

will not be registered under the vehicle registration legislation.




(3)

Subsection (2) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (1) (a)

[provisions providing exemptions in relation to tangible personal
property]

of the Act.




(4)

For the purposes of section 145 (1.1) (a)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that a qualifying
vehicle is exempt under subsection (2) of this section, the collector
is required to obtain a declaration in a form acceptable to the
director.






Aircraft purchased for use outside British Columbia




25

(1)


An aircraft is exempt from tax imposed under section 37
[tax on purchase of tangible personal property]
of the Act if the aircraft




(a)

is purchased by




(i)

a person other than an individual, or




(ii)

an individual who does not reside or ordinarily reside in British
Columbia,




(b)

is purchased for use primarily outside British Columbia, and




(c)

is not purchased for use in British Columbia, other than for a
non-business purpose.




(2)

Subsection (1) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (1) (a)

[provisions providing exemptions in relation to tangible personal
property]

of the Act.




(3)

For the purposes of section 145 (1.1) (a)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that an aircraft is
exempt under subsection (1) of this section, the collector is required
to obtain a declaration in a form acceptable to the director.






Tangible personal property shipped outside British Columbia




26

(1)


A purchaser who purchases tangible personal property at a sale in
British Columbia is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act if




(a)

the tangible personal property is to be shipped by the seller for
delivery outside British Columbia, and




(b)

no use is to be made of the tangible personal property by the
purchaser while the tangible personal property is in British Columbia
other than storage of the tangible personal property with the seller.




(2)

Subsection (1) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (1) (a)

[provisions providing exemptions in relation to tangible personal
property]

of the Act.




Division 7 — Fuel, Energy and Energy Conservation





Fuel for use as source of energy




27

(1)


The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act:




(a)

pelletized fuel, as defined in the Solid Fuel Burning Domestic
Appliance Regulation;




(b)

manufactured firelogs;




(c)

barbecue briquettes.




(2)

Wood and charcoal are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part, if obtained for use as a source of
energy.

[am. B.C. Reg. 218/2016, s. (d).]





Residential energy products




28


A residential energy product is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3
of the Act, other than Divisions 9 and 11 of that Part, if




(a)

the residential energy product is obtained solely for residential use
in a residential dwelling,




(b)

the seller of the residential energy product delivers or provides the
residential energy product to




(i)

a residential dwelling,




(ii)

a building that contains a residential dwelling, or




(iii)

a storage tank or facility located at and connected to a residential
dwelling, and




(c)

in the case of a delivery or provision of a residential energy product
to a residential dwelling that is part of a multi-use building, the
seller delivers or provides the residential energy product to a
storage tank or facility, or through a meter, that services only the
part of the building that is used only for residential use.






Electricity for residential and farm use




29

(1)


Electricity is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other
than Division 9 of that Part, if




(a)

the electricity is obtained by a qualifying farmer for use only for




(i)

residential use in a residential dwelling, and




(ii)

a farm purpose, and




(b)

the seller of the electricity provides the electricity for both
purposes described in paragraph (a) through the same meter.




(2)

Subsection (1) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (1) (a)

[provisions providing exemptions in relation to tangible personal
property]

of the Act.




(3)

For the purposes of section 145 (1.1)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that electricity is
exempt under subsection (1) of this section, the collector is required
to obtain




(a)

the name, address, card number and expiry date as recorded on a BC
Farmer Identity Card issued to that person by the BC Agriculture
Council, or




(b)

a declaration in a form acceptable to the director.






Continuous supply of tangible personal property as part of use of real
property or moorage facilities




29.1


Tangible personal property is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of
the Act if




(a)

the tangible personal property is purchased from a seller under a
contract that has as its fundamental and overriding objective the
right to use real property or moorage facilities and not the purchase
of the tangible personal property,




(b)

the seller delivers the tangible personal property or makes the
tangible personal property available to the purchaser on a continuous
basis by means of a wire, pipeline or other conduit,




(c)

the seller does not deliver or provide the tangible personal property
to the purchaser through a separate meter, and




(d)

the seller of the tangible personal property obtained the tangible
personal property from another person for a purpose other than for the
sole purpose of resale.

[en. B.C. Reg. 153/2013, s. 1.]





Energy conservation




30


The following tangible personal property is exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if the
tangible personal property is obtained for use to conserve energy:




(a)

thermal insulation material that is




(i)

a batt, a blanket, a roll, a panel, loose fill or cellular plastic
material, and




(ii)

designed primarily to prevent heat loss from a building,


but not including vapour barrier or any other material incorporated
into or attached to a building and serving a structural or decorative
function;




(b)

polystyrene forming blocks designed




(i)

for use initially as a form for concrete, and




(ii)

to remain permanently attached to the concrete to serve as the primary
insulation for the completed building to prevent heat loss from the
building;




(c)

fastening components specifically designed for use with polystyrene
forming blocks described in paragraph (b);




(d)

chemicals obtained for use to make spray polyurethane foam insulation
designed primarily to prevent heat loss from a building;




(e)

window insulating systems, consisting of a transparent or translucent
film and including frames or integral parts of the systems, installed
in an existing window and designed primarily to retain heat in a
building by absorbing solar heat or reducing drafts;




(f)

weather stripping and caulking materials designed to prevent heat loss
from a building;




(g)

insulation, other than tapes and sealants, designed to prevent the
transfer of heat to or from hot water tanks, hot or cold water pipes
or ductwork;




(h)

wind-powered generating equipment specifically designed to produce
mechanical or electrical energy;




(i)

generators, controllers, wiring and devices that convert direct
current into alternating current, if they are obtained together with
and as part of wind-powered generating equipment described in
paragraph (h);




(j)

solar photovoltaic collector panels;




(k)

controllers, wiring and devices that convert direct current into
alternating current, if they are obtained together with and as part of
a system that includes solar photovoltaic collector panels;




(l)

solar thermal collector panels;




(m)

wiring, pumps, tubing and heat exchangers, if they are obtained
together with and as part of a system that includes solar thermal
collector panels;




(n)

micro-hydro turbines and generators designed to produce up to 150 kW
of mechanical or electrical energy;




(o)

controllers, wiring, tubing and devices that convert direct current
into alternating current, if they are obtained together with and as
part of a system that includes micro-hydro turbines or generators
described in paragraph (n);




(p)

equipment specifically designed to produce mechanical or electrical
energy from ocean tides, currents or waves;




(q)

the following, if obtained together with and as part of a system that
includes equipment described in paragraph (p):




(i)

generators, wiring, controllers, monitors, pumps, tubing, floats,
water fences and devices that convert direct current into alternating
current;




(ii)

aids to navigation as defined in section 125 of the

Canada Shipping Act, 2001

;




(r)

natural gas and propane conversion kits for internal combustion
engines;




(s)

kits to convert motor vehicles to operate solely on electricity;




(t)

the following, if designed to reduce wind-resistance and improve fuel
efficiency:




(i)

tractor-trailer gap fairings;




(ii)

trailer side skirts;




(iii)

aerodynamic bumpers;




(iv)

tank skirts;




(v)

tractor roof fairings;




(vi)

base flaps;




(vii)

boat tails.






Heat pumps




30.1


Heat pumps are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 206/2022, s. 2.]





Tangible personal property for use for hydroelectric power generation




31

(1)


Tangible personal property described in Schedule 1

[Tangible Personal Property for Hydroelectric Power Generation]

is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than
Division 9 of that Part, if the tangible personal property is




(a)

manufactured machinery, equipment or apparatus,




(b)

obtained for use




(i)

as penstock intake or diversion equipment, at the point of diversion
from the water source, or




(ii)

as penstock pipe, to provide water from the point of diversion from
the water source to a hydroelectric power plant, and




(c)

part of a penstock system for a hydroelectric power plant that is
validly licensed under the

Water Sustainability Act

.




(2)

Subsection (1) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (1) (a)

[provisions providing exemptions in relation to tangible personal
property]

of the Act.




(3)

For the purposes of section 145 (1.1)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that tangible personal
property is exempt under subsection (1) of this section, the collector
is required to obtain




(a)

that person's registration number, or




(b)

if that person does not have a registration number, a declaration in a
form acceptable to the director.

[am. B.C. Reg. 41/2016, s. 25.]



Division 8 — Safety Equipment and Apparel





Work-related safety equipment




32

(1)


The following work-related safety equipment designed to be worn by a
worker is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act:




(a)

safety glasses, safety goggles, face shields and welding helmets;




(b)

respirators that offer protection from dust, toxic gases and vapours,
including protection canisters;




(c)

gas masks, including protection canisters;




(d)

hearing protectors, including ear down, ear plugs and ear muffs;




(e)

safety caps, hard hats and helmets, but not including optional weather
liners, skull caps, hairnets or sweatbands;




(f)

gloves with built-in safety features such as reinforced thumbs, palms
or cuffs, designed to protect the wearer from physical harm, including
traffic safety gloves to enhance visibility, but not including dress
gloves, general purpose gloves and gloves designed primarily to
protect the wearer from natural elements;




(g)

footwear with built-in safety features such as safety toes, loggers'
caulks or acid resistance, but not including footwear designed solely
for protection against the weather;




(h)

metatarsal protectors, puncture-resistant insoles, toe clips, shin
guards, foot guards, skid-masters and ice cleats;




(i)

personal intercom systems designed to allow safe, hands-free
communication while working in confined or hazardous environments.




(2)

An air hose designed to connect a respirator described in subsection
(1) (b) to an air source, if the air hose is obtained together with
the respirator, is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act.






Equipment and apparel for specific purpose




33

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), work-related safety equipment and apparel
designed to be worn by or attached to a worker is exempt from tax
imposed under Part 3 of the Act, if the work-related safety equipment
or apparel is obtained by




(a)

an employer for use by the employer's employees in the course of their
employment,




(b)

a person who is self-employed for the person's own use in the course
of self-employment, or




(c)

an educational institution for the use of students who are enrolled in
educational programs provided by that institution.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) applies to work-related safety
equipment or apparel obtained by




(a)

an employer referred to in subsection (1) (a), if the work-related
safety equipment or apparel is obtained for the purpose of complying
with




(i)

the Occupational Health and Safety Regulation, B.C. Reg. 296/97, or




(ii)

the Health, Safety and Reclamation Code for Mines in British Columbia
established under the

Mines Act

, or




(b)

a person referred to in subsection (1) (b) or an educational
institution referred to in subsection (1) (c), if the person or
institution would have been required to obtain the work-related safety
equipment or apparel for the purpose referred to in paragraph (a) of
this subsection had the person or institution been an employer.




(3)

Subsection (1) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (1) (a)

[provisions providing exemptions in relation to tangible personal
property]

of the Act.




(4)

For the purposes of section 145 (1.1)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that tangible personal
property is exempt under subsection (1) of this section, the collector
is required to obtain




(a)

that person's registration number, or




(b)

if that person does not have a registration number, a declaration in a
form acceptable to the director.






Marine safety equipment




34

(1)


The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act:




(a)

floater coats;




(b)

inflatable life rafts that meet the requirements of the Life Saving
Equipment Regulations under the

Canada Shipping Act, 2001

for inflatable life rafts, and repair kits for those rafts;




(c)

life jackets;




(d)

life-saving buoys and flags;




(e)

life-saving cushions;




(f)

life-saving throw rings;




(g)

marine survival suits.




(2)

Distress flares are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part, if obtained for use on a boat to
draw attention to the boat when the boat is in distress.






Safety equipment and apparel




35

(1)


The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act:




(a)

bicycle lights and reflectors;




(b)

children's restraint car seats;




(c)

children's booster car seats;




(d)

first aid kits;




(e)

safety helmets designed for use in sport, recreation or
transportation;




(f)

safety vests and safety bibs, the sole purpose of which is to enhance
the visibility of the wearer;




(g)

emergency locator transmitters;




(h)

portable fire extinguishers and refills for portable fire
extinguishers;




(i)

self-contained smoke or fire alarm devices designed for use in
residential dwellings and sold for a purchase price per unit of less
than $250;




(j)

gas detection monitors that monitor for gas on a continuous basis;




(k)

emergency gas shut-off devices




(i)

designed for manually shutting off the gas supply of a building, or




(ii)

attached to a gas line and designed to automatically shut off the gas
supply to a building in response to significant movement;




(l)

the following avalanche safety and rescue equipment:




(i)

avalanche airbag backpack systems specifically designed to carry
airbags that, when triggered, inflate instantly to help keep the
wearer above the snow surface during an avalanche;




(ii)

avalanche beacons and probes to help locate avalanche victims;




(iii)

equipment specifically designed to reduce the likelihood of
asphyxiation from the formation of an ice mask on a person who is
buried under snow by providing an artificial air pocket through which
air is taken from the surrounding snowpack;




(m)

personal alert safety systems designed




(i)

to be worn by persons working in hazardous or potentially hazardous
conditions, and




(ii)

to alert




(A)

the wearer to unsafe conditions, or




(B)

rescuers to the location of the wearer;




(n)

automated external defibrillators, kits containing an automated
external defibrillator and pads designed for use with automated
external defibrillators.




(2)

The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part:




(a)

the following emergency equipment if obtained for use on highways:




(i)

distress flares;




(ii)

fluorescent tape;




(iii)

reflective strips for barriers;




(iv)

reflectors;




(v)

triangle emblems;




(b)

oxygen, oxygen containers or oxygen dispensing apparatus, obtained for
medical or emergency use;




(c)

air compressors obtained for use to fill oxygen containers or oxygen
dispensing apparatus, if the container or apparatus is for emergency
use by a firefighter;




(d)

transmitters designed for use solely to communicate the existence of a
medically related emergency, if the transmitter is obtained by an
individual for use




(i)

at the individual's residence, or




(ii)

by another individual at the other individual's residence.

[am. B.C. Regs. 54/2018; 165/2023.]



Division 9 — Industrial and Commercial Items





Mining supplies




36

(1)


In this section,
"explosive supplies"
means blasting agents, blasting supplies and blasting accessories,
including blasting caps, boosters, plastic cap holders, electric
starters, squibs, shunt connectors, safety fuse assemblies, igniter
cord connectors, hot wire lighters, detonator cord connectors and
closing tubes.




(2)

Explosive supplies are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the
Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if obtained for use in




(a)

mineral exploration, extraction or processing, or




(b)

the development of a mine other than construction of an access road to
a mine.




(3)

Balls, rods and similar detached media obtained for use in the
grinding of ore in the process of extracting minerals from ore are
exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9
of that Part.






Boomsticks and used boom gear




37

(1)


Boomsticks are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act.




(2)

The following boom gear is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the
Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if the boom gear was
previously sold at a retail sale and previously used as boom gear:




(a)

boom chains obtained for use in tying boomsticks together to form a
frame;




(b)

bundle and continuous wires obtained for use in securing logs that are
transported within a frame;




(c)

swifter wires obtained for use in securing bundled logs to a frame.






Chemical substances, catalysts and direct agents




38

(1)


In this section:


"catalyst"
means a substance that produces or modifies a chemical reaction and
that, at the end of the reaction, is unchanged;



"direct agent"

means a substance that produces or modifies a chemical reaction and
that is consumed in the chemical reaction to the point of destruction
or dissipation or uselessness for any other purpose.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), a chemical substance, catalyst or direct
agent obtained for use




(a)

in processing or manufacturing tangible personal property for sale or
lease, and




(b)

to produce or modify a reaction that is essential for that processing
or manufacturing


is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than
Division 9 of that Part.




(3)

The exemption under subsection (2) does not apply to a chemical
substance, catalyst or direct agent obtained




(a)

for use to produce energy or as a source of energy, unless the
chemical substance, catalyst or direct agent is electricity for use in
an electrolytic process,




(b)

for use in processing tangible personal property, unless the
processing consists of, is one step in or occurs immediately after a
series of operations or a complex operation that results in a
substantial change in the form or other physical or chemical
characteristics of the tangible personal property,




(c)

for use to transform tangible personal property from a gaseous, liquid
or solid state to another one of those states by means of the
application of pressure or a change in temperature, unless the
transformation is one step in, or occurs immediately after, an
operation referred to in paragraph (b) of this subsection,




(d)

for use for the primary purpose of maintaining, lubricating or
prolonging the life of machinery or equipment,




(e)

to be added to waste removed from the production process,




(f)

to be added to a tailings pond or settling pond,




(g)

for use for testing purposes, or




(h)

for use for the purpose of cleaning or sanitizing, unless the chemical
substance, catalyst or direct agent is for use for the primary purpose
of cleaning or sanitizing the tangible personal property referred to
in subsection (2) (a).




(4)

The definition of "substantially" in section 1
[definitions]
of the Act does not apply in subsection (3) (b) of this section.




(5)

Exothermic sleeves obtained for use in the casting of metal or metal
alloys are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than
Division 9 of that Part.




(6)

Subsections (2) and (5) of this section are prescribed for the
purposes of the following provisions of the Act:




(a)

section 89 (2)
[tax on acquisition of eligible tangible personal property]
;




(b)

section 90 (4)

[tax on eligible tangible personal property brought into British
Columbia]

;




(c)

section 99 (6)

[tax on acquisition of exclusive product by independent sales
contractor]

.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2016, Sch. 2, s. 2.]





Abrasives, dies, jigs, patterns and moulds




39

(1)


In this section, subject to subsection (2):


"die"
means a solid or hollow form used for shaping or marking goods in
process by cutting, stamping, pressing or extruding, but does not
include




(a)

planers, saws, knives or blades, or




(b)

a die set or tap set used for cutting threads;



"grinding wheel"

means a disc or wheel




(a)

the thickness of which does not exceed its diameter, and




(b)

that removes material by grinding,

but does not include



(c)

a disc or wheel that removes material by cutting, or




(d)

a refiner plate or disc used for manufacturing pulp;


"jig"
means a device used in the accurate machining of goods in process to
hold the goods firmly and guide the working tools, or to bend the
goods in process;


"mould"
means a hollow form




(a)

into which materials are placed to produce desired shapes, matrices or
cavities, and




(b)

used to shape or form goods in process.




(2)

For the purposes of the definitions in subsection (1), a die, grinding
wheel, jig or mould does not include any of the following:




(a)

components or materials used to manufacture or produce the die,
grinding wheel, jig or mould;




(b)

any machinery, equipment or apparatus




(i)

to which the die, grinding wheel, jig or mould may be attached, or




(ii)

that is necessary to carry out the function or process of the die,
grinding wheel, jig or mould.




(3)

The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part, if obtained by a person for use in
the manufacture, production, service or repair of tangible personal
property or real property:




(a)

abrasive paper, emery paper or other fabric-backed abrasives suitable
for use by hand or for use with hand-held tools;




(b)

dies;




(c)

grinding wheels;




(d)

jigs;




(e)

moulds, other than moulds designed for use in food production;




(f)

patterns;




(g)

polishing wheels;




(h)

rotary steel brushes;




(i)

sand for use in sand blasting;




(j)

steel, plastic and glass shot and similar material for use in blasting
clean a surface;




(k)

steel wool.




(4)

Moulds designed for use in food production are exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if
obtained by a person for use in the manufacture or production of food
in the course of the person's business.




(5)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 117/2014, Sch. 4, s. 2.]

[am. B.C. Reg. 117/2014, Sch. 4, s. 2.]





Photographers and printers




40

(1)


Film, photographic paper and chemicals obtained for use in developing
film are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than
Division 9 of that Part, if the film, photographic paper or chemicals
are obtained




(a)

by a person who is




(i)

a commercial photographer, or




(ii)

in the business of photograph processing or finishing, and




(b)

for use in the course of the person's business.




(2)

The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part, if obtained by printers or
publishers for their own use in a printing or publishing process:




(a)

artwork;




(b)

blankets and screens used in the printing process to transfer ink to
the product being printed, but not including frames;




(c)

cuts;




(d)

engravings;




(e)

film;




(f)

flats;




(g)

negatives;




(h)

paste ups;




(i)

photoconductor drums;




(j)

photographs;




(k)

plates;




(l)

signatures;




(m)

slides;




(n)

transparencies;




(o)

typesetting products.




(3)

Materials obtained by printers or publishers for their own use in the
manufacture or production of any of the items described in subsection
(2) for their own use in a printing or publishing process are exempt
from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of
that Part.




(4)

Subsections (1), (2) and (3) of this section are prescribed for the
purposes of the following provisions of the Act:




(a)

section 89 (2)
[tax on acquisition of eligible tangible personal property]
;




(b)

section 90 (4)

[tax on eligible tangible personal property brought into British
Columbia]

;




(c)

section 99 (6)

[tax on acquisition of exclusive product by independent sales
contractor]

.






Prototypes




41

(1)


For the purposes of section 141 (1) (d)
[exemptions in relation to software for prototypes]
of the Act, Part 3 software that is not specifically designed for a
prototype referred to in that provision is prescribed tangible
personal property.




(2)

For the purposes of section 141 (1) (d) and (e) of the Act, making a
copy of a prototype solely for the purpose of testing the prototype as
part of the research and development activities referred to in the
applicable provision is a prescribed purpose.






Ships' stores




42

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), ships' stores are exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act if delivered to commercial vessels of
more than 500 tons gross that normally operate in extraterritorial
waters.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to the following:




(a)

liquor, other than an alcohol-containing food product;




(b)

tobacco.


[en. B.C. Reg. 76/2016, Sch. 2, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 210/2022, Sch., s.
1.]






Bottles for milk products




43


Bottles are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other
than Division 9 of that Part, if the bottles are




(a)

obtained for use to hold a milk product that is sold at a retail sale,
and




(b)

returnable and reusable.




Division 10 — Farming, Fertilizers, Fishing and Aquaculture





Animals and plants




44


The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act:




(a)

living animals of a kind the products of which ordinarily constitute
food for human consumption;




(b)

living plants and trees of a kind the products of which ordinarily
constitute food for human consumption.






Feed




45

(0.1)


In this section,
"animal"
means an animal




(a)

that is to be sold in the regular course of business, or




(b)

of a kind the products of which ordinarily constitute food for human
consumption.




(1)

The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part:




(a)

feed obtained for use to feed an animal;




(b)

subject to subsection (2), grain, mill and other agricultural feeds
and seeds obtained for use solely for an agricultural purpose;




(c)

vitamins and dietary supplements or adjuncts, in a form designed to be
ingested orally, if the vitamins, supplements or adjuncts are obtained
for consumption by an animal;




(d)

subject to subsection (3), drugs and medicines, including those in the
form of salves, ointments, nasal sprays, inhalants, antiseptics,
liniments, powders, germicides, laxatives, cough syrups and cold and
flu remedies, that are




(i)

advertised or marketed as products for the treatment, mitigation or
prevention of a disease or disorder in animals, and




(ii)

obtained for use to treat an animal.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) (b) does not apply to grain, mill
and other agricultural feeds and seeds that are obtained for use to
feed




(a)

a bird of a kind the products of which do not ordinarily constitute
food for human consumption, or




(b)

a household pet.




(3)

The exemption under subsection (1) (d) does not apply to the
following:




(a)

sunscreen;




(b)

oral hygiene products;




(c)

toiletries, shaving products, depilatories and fragrances;




(d)

soaps and moisturizers, unless the soap or moisturizer is medicated
and is advertised or marketed as a product for the treatment,
mitigation or prevention of a particular skin condition;




(e)

hair or fur products, unless the product is medicated and is
advertised or marketed as a product for the treatment, mitigation or
prevention of fleas, ticks or lice;




(f)

grooming products and cosmetics.

[am. B.C. Reg. 117/2014, Sch. 4, s. 3.]





Farmers




46

(1)


In this section,
"qualifying part"
means a part that is designed for use




(a)

as a replacement part for tangible personal property described in
Schedule 2
[Tangible Personal Property for Farm Purpose]
, or




(b)

in the manufacture or repair of tangible personal property described
in Schedule 2,


but does not include a part that is suitable for use for any of the
purposes referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) by reason only of the
general nature of the part's design and manufacture.




(2)

Tangible personal property described in Schedule 2 is exempt from tax
imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Divisions 9 and 11 of that
Part, if the tangible personal property is obtained by a qualifying
farmer for use solely for a farm purpose.




(3)

A qualifying part is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part, if




(a)

the qualifying part is obtained by a qualifying farmer for use




(i)

as a replacement part for tangible personal property described in
Schedule 2, or




(ii)

in the manufacture or repair of tangible personal property described
in Schedule 2, and




(b)

the tangible personal property referred to in paragraph (a) (i) or
(ii) is to be used by a qualifying farmer solely for a farm purpose.




(4)

Subsections (2) and (3) of this section are prescribed for the
purposes of section 145 (1) (a)

[provisions providing exemptions in relation to tangible personal
property]

of the Act.




(5)

For the purposes of section 145 (1.1)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that tangible personal
property is exempt under subsection (2) or (3) of this section, the
collector is required to obtain




(a)

the name, address, card number and expiry date as recorded on a BC
Farmer Identity Card issued to that person by the BC Agriculture
Council, or




(b)

a declaration in a form acceptable to the director.




(6)

For the purposes of section 30 (7)

[evidence required to claim exemption in relation to tax payable in
respect of vehicle]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that a vehicle is
exempt under subsection (2) of this section, the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia is required to obtain




(a)

the name, address, card number and expiry date as recorded on a BC
Farmer Identity Card issued to that person by the BC Agriculture
Council, or




(b)

a declaration in a form acceptable to the director.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 6.]





Fertilizer and other materials




47

(1)


In this section,
"fertilizer"
means a substance or mixture of substances that contains nitrogen,
phosphorus, potassium or other plant nutrients and is substantially
advertised or marketed as a plant food, but does not include
substances or mixtures of substances that




(a)

contain 50 percent or more by volume of sand, gravel, topsoil, fill,
weed control chemicals, fungicides or a substance that is not a plant
nutrient, or any combination of them, or




(b)

are registered under the

Pest Control Products Act

(Canada).




(2)

The following tangible personal property is exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act if the tangible personal property is obtained
by an individual:




(a)

agricultural lime;




(b)

fertilizer;




(c)

organic mulch;




(d)

organic substances if the substances are advertised or marketed as
compost aids or compost accelerators;




(e)

peat, other than peat pellets and compostable pots made from peat;




(f)

plant hormones, microorganisms and enzymes, or a mixture of plant
hormones, microorganisms or enzymes, if advertised or marketed as a
plant regulator;




(g)

sphagnum;




(h)

wood ash or charcoal if the wood ash or charcoal is advertised or
marketed as a soil amendment.




(3)

The following tangible personal property is exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if the
tangible personal property is obtained by a person, other than an
individual, for an agricultural purpose:




(a)

agricultural lime;




(b)

fertilizer;




(c)

organic mulch;




(d)

organic substances if the substances are advertised or marketed as
compost aids or compost accelerators;




(e)

peat, other than peat pellets and compostable pots made from peat;




(f)

plant hormones, microorganisms and enzymes, or a mixture of plant
hormones, microbes or enzymes, if advertised or marketed as a plant
regulator;




(g)

sphagnum;




(h)

wood ash or charcoal if the wood ash or charcoal is advertised or
marketed as a soil amendment.




(4)

The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part, if obtained for use in landscaping
or as bedding for animals:




(a)

sawdust;




(b)

straw;




(c)

wood chips;




(d)

wood shavings.




(5)

The following tangible personal property is exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act if the tangible personal property is
advertised or marketed as a growing medium for plants and is obtained
by an individual:




(a)

compostable basket liners and growing mats made only from organic
materials;




(b)

compostable pots made only from organic materials;




(c)

diatomaceous earth;




(d)

humus;




(e)

orchid bark;




(f)

peat pellets;




(g)

perlite;




(h)

potting soil and soilless potting mix unless the soil or mix




(i)

contains 50 percent or more by volume of sand, gravel, topsoil, fill,
weed control chemicals, fungicides or any combination of them, or




(ii)

is registered under the

Pest Control Products Act

(Canada);




(i)

vermiculite.




(6)

The following tangible personal property is exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if the
tangible personal property is advertised or marketed as a growing
medium for plants and is obtained by a person, other than an
individual, for an agricultural purpose:




(a)

compostable basket liners and growing mats made only from organic
materials;




(b)

compostable pots made only from organic materials;




(c)

diatomaceous earth;




(d)

humus;




(e)

orchid bark;




(f)

peat pellets;




(g)

perlite;




(h)

potting soil and soilless potting mix unless the soil or mix




(i)

contains 50 percent or more by volume of sand, gravel, topsoil, fill,
weed control chemicals, fungicides or any combination of them, or




(ii)

is registered under the

Pest Control Products Act

(Canada);




(i)

vermiculite.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 7.]





Commercial fishers




48

(1)


In this section,
"qualifying part"
means a part that is designed for use in the repair or reconditioning
of a boat, fishing net or fishing equipment, but does not include a
part that is suitable for use for either of those purposes by reason
only of the general nature of the part's design and manufacture.




(2)

Boats, fishing nets and fishing equipment are exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if the
boat, fishing net or fishing equipment is obtained by a qualifying
commercial fisher for use solely for a commercial fishing purpose.




(3)

A qualifying part is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part, if




(a)

the qualifying part is obtained by a qualifying commercial fisher for
use in the repair or reconditioning of a boat, fishing net or fishing
equipment, and




(b)

the boat, fishing net or fishing equipment referred to in paragraph
(a) is to be used by a qualifying commercial fisher solely for a
commercial fishing purpose.




(4)

Subsections (2) and (3) of this section are prescribed for the
purposes of section 145 (1) (a)

[provisions providing exemptions in relation to tangible personal
property]

of the Act.




(5)

For the purposes of section 145 (1.1) (a)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that tangible personal
property is exempt under subsection (2) or (3) of this section, the
collector is required to obtain a declaration in a form acceptable to
the director.






Aquaculturists




49

(1)


In this section,
"qualifying part"
means a part that is designed for use




(a)

as a replacement part for tangible personal property described in
Schedule 4
[Tangible Personal Property for Aquaculture Purpose]
, or




(b)

in the repair of tangible personal property described in Schedule 4,


but does not include a part that is suitable for use for either of the
purposes referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) by reason only of the
general nature of the part's design and manufacture.




(2)

Tangible personal property described in Schedule 4 is exempt from tax
imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part,
if the tangible personal property is obtained by a qualifying
aquaculturist for use solely for an aquaculture purpose.




(3)

A qualifying part is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part, if




(a)

the qualifying part is obtained by a qualifying aquaculturist for use




(i)

as a replacement part for tangible personal property described in
Schedule 4, or




(ii)

in the repair of tangible personal property described in Schedule 4,
and




(b)

the tangible personal property referred to in paragraph (a) (i) or
(ii) is to be used by a qualifying aquaculturist solely for an
aquaculture purpose.




(4)

Subsections (2) and (3) of this section are prescribed for the
purposes of section 145 (1) (a)

[provisions providing exemptions in relation to tangible personal
property]

of the Act.




(5)

For the purposes of section 145 (1.1) (a)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that tangible personal
property is exempt under subsection (2) or (3) of this section, the
collector is required to obtain a declaration in a form acceptable to
the director.




(6)

For the purposes of section 30 (7) (a)

[evidence required to claim exemption in relation to tax payable in
respect of vehicle]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that a vehicle is
exempt under subsection (2) of this section, the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia is required to obtain a declaration in a form
acceptable to the director.




Division 11 — Other Exemptions in Relation to Tangible Personal Property





Transfer due to dissolution of marriage or relationship




50


An individual is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act in
respect of tangible personal property transferred to the individual
from a spouse or former spouse of the individual under




(a)

an agreement dividing property under Part 5
[Property Division]
or 6
[Pension Division]
of the

Family Law Act

,




(b)

a written separation agreement, or a marriage agreement, referred to
in the
Family Relations Act
, or




(c)

an order of a court on the dissolution of a marriage or marriage-like
relationship.






Poppies, wreaths and natural, cut Christmas trees




51


The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act:




(a)

Remembrance Day poppies and wreaths;




(b)

natural, cut evergreen trees sold as Christmas trees.






Exemptions in relation to food — liquor and food products containing
cannabis not exempt




52

(1)


In this section,
"cannabis"
has the same meaning as in the

Cannabis Control and Licensing Act

but does not include




(a)

industrial hemp within the meaning of the Industrial Hemp Regulations
(Canada), or




(b)

a product that is exempt from the application of the

Cannabis Act

(Canada) under section 2 (2) of the Industrial Hemp Regulations
(Canada).




(2)

For the purposes of section 139 (a)
[exclusions from exemptions in relation to food]
of the Act, the following are prescribed as food products excluded
from the exemption under that section:




(a)

food products containing cannabis;




(b)

liquor, other than an alcohol-containing food product.

[en. B.C. Reg. 212/2018, s. 2.]





Dry ice




53


Dry ice is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act.






Gold, silver or platinum




54


Gold, silver or platinum in the form of bullion or coin is exempt from
tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act unless the bullion or coin is
obtained for a purchase price greater than the market value of its
gold, silver or platinum content.






Exemptions in relation to transportation




55

(1)


In this section,
"used zero-emission vehicle"
means a zero-emission vehicle that




(a)

was previously purchased at a retail sale for a purpose other than for
the purpose only of leasing the zero-emission vehicle to other
persons, or




(b)

was previously leased by a person other than




(i)

the lessee, or




(ii)

a person who is exempt from tax under section 142 (2) of the Act.




(1.1)

The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act:




(a)

non-motorized bicycles;




(b)

non-motorized tricycles, each wheel of which has a diameter of 350 mm
or more;




(b.1)

electric bicycles and tricycles that




(i)

have pedals or hand cranks that allow for the cycle to be propelled by
human power,




(ii)

have wheels that have a diameter of 350 mm or more,




(iii)

have one or more electric motors that




(A)

have continuous power output ratings that in total do not exceed
500 watts, and




(B)

are not capable of propelling the cycle at a speed greater than
32 km/hr on level ground,




(iv)

do not have a combustion engine, and




(v)

are not marketed as, or designed to have the appearance of, an
electric motorcycle, an electric moped, an electric scooter or another
similar device;




(b.2)

kits for converting a device described in paragraph (a) or (b) into a
device described in paragraph (b.1);




(c)

aircraft powered by a turbine, and parts for those aircraft;




(c.1)

aircraft that are not remotely piloted and that are powered solely by
electricity, and parts for those aircraft;




(d)

self-propelled vessels of more than 500 tons gross;




(e)

subject to subsection (4), a used zero-emission vehicle.




(2)

The following are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part:




(a)

tangible personal property, other than an aircraft or a part for an
aircraft, obtained by a person operating a commercial airline for use
during the airline's interprovincial or international flights by




(i)

the airline's passengers, or




(ii)

the airline in serving its passengers;




(b)

trailers obtained for use solely with multijurisdictional vehicles;




(c)

parts obtained for use in




(i)

a multijurisdictional vehicle, or




(ii)

a trailer referred to in paragraph (b).




(3)

Subsection (2) (b) and (c) of this section is prescribed for the
purposes of section 145 (1) (a)

[provisions providing exemptions in relation to tangible personal
property]

of the Act.




(4)

Subsection (1.1) (e) does not apply in respect of a used zero-emission
vehicle in the following circumstances:




(a)

the used zero-emission vehicle was received as a gift and at the time
the person received the gift the odometer reading was less than
6 000 km;




(b)

the used zero-emission vehicle was acquired at a sale in Canada that
is not a taxable supply by a registrant under Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

and at the time of sale the odometer reading was less than 6 000
km.


[am. B.C. Regs. 243/2020, s. (a); 261/2021; 207/2022, Sch. 1, s. 1.]






Tangible personal property subject to security instrument




56

(1)


In this section,
"sale"
means a sale referred to in paragraph (g) of the definition of "sale"
in section 1
[definitions]
of the Act.




(2)

Tangible personal property repurchased at a sale is exempt from tax
imposed under Part 3 of the Act if




(a)

the purchaser takes possession of the tangible personal property under
a security instrument, and




(b)

tax was paid by the purchaser in respect of the previous purchase of
the tangible personal property




(i)

under the Act, the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

and the purchaser has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain,
under those Acts, a refund of that tax, or




(ii)

under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of Part IX of
the

Excise Tax Act

, in respect of British Columbia as a participating province under
Part IX of that Act, and the purchaser has not obtained and is not
entitled to obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a credit
or rebate for that tax.






Parts




57

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), a part designed and obtained for
use to repair or recondition tangible personal property is exempt from
tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that
Part, if the tangible personal property would be exempt from tax
imposed under the Act if the tangible personal property were obtained
on the date on which the part is obtained.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to a part obtained
for use to repair or recondition tangible personal property that would
be exempt from tax under any of the following provisions of the Act:




(a)

section 44 (1)
[lease under sale and lease-back arrangement]
;




(b)

section 50 (4)

[exemption from tax on registration of travel trailer brought into
British Columbia]

;




(c)

section 52 (5)

[exemption from tax respecting boat or travel trailer brought into
British Columbia by non-residents]

.




(3)

The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to a part obtained
for use to repair or recondition tangible personal property that would
be exempt from tax under any of the following provisions of this
regulation:




(a)

section 3 (1) (j)
[clip-on sunglasses]
;




(a.1)

section 17.1
[gifts]
;




(b)

section 18
[gifts between family members]
;




(c)

section 19
[registered charities]
;




(d)

section 20
[prizes, draws and awards]
;




(e)

section 21
[inheritance of tangible personal property]
;




(f)

section 22
[new resident's effects — tangible personal property]
;




(g)

section 23

[vehicle, boat or aircraft brought into British Columbia for gift]

;




(h)

section 24
[vehicle purchased for use outside British Columbia]
;




(i)

section 25
[aircraft purchased for use outside British Columbia]
;




(j)

section 26

[tangible personal property shipped outside British Columbia]

;




(j.1)

section 30.1
[heat pumps]
;




(k)

section 32 (2)
[air hoses designed to connect to respirators]
;




(l)

section 46 (2)
[farmers]
;




(m)

section 48 (2)
[commercial fishers]
;




(n)

section 49 (2)
[aquaculturists]
;




(o)

section 50
[transfer due to dissolution of marriage or relationship]
;




(o.1)

section 55 (1.1) (e)
[exemptions in relation to used zero-emission vehicles]
;




(p)

section 56
[tangible personal property subject to security instrument]
;




(p.1)

section 60.2
[purchases at duty free shop]
;




(q)

Part 5
[Production Machinery and Equipment]
;




(r)

Part 9
[Related Party Asset Transfers]
.


[am. B.C. Regs. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 8; 206/2022, s. 3; 207/2022, Sch.
1, s. 2.]






Used manufactured buildings




58

(1)


In this section:



"previous purchaser"

means a person who purchased a manufactured building at a previous
sale;



"previous sale"

, in respect of a manufactured building referred to in subsection (2),
means the retail sale, referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of that
subsection, of the manufactured building.




(2)

A manufactured building is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the
Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if




(a)

the manufactured building was previously




(i)

sold at a retail sale, and




(ii)

subject to subsection (3), used as a building by




(A)

the previous purchaser of the manufactured building,




(B)

another person at the expense of the previous purchaser,




(C)

a principal for whom the previous purchaser acted as agent in
acquiring the manufactured building at the previous sale, or




(D)

another person at the expense of a principal for whom that previous
purchaser acted as agent in acquiring the manufactured building at the
previous sale, and




(b)

any of the following applies:




(i)

the manufactured building was designed and is obtained for residential
use;




(ii)

the previous sale took place before July 1, 2010;




(iii)

tax was paid by the previous purchaser of the manufactured building in
respect of the previous sale




(A)

under the Act and the person has not obtained and is not entitled to
obtain, under the Act, a refund of that tax, or




(B)

under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of Part IX of
the

Excise Tax Act

, in respect of British Columbia as a participating province under
Part IX of that Act, and that person has not obtained and is not
entitled to obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a credit
or rebate for that tax.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2) (a) (ii), use of a manufactured
building does not include leasing the manufactured building as a
lessor.






Custom software, custom modified software and other software




59

(1)


In this section:



"custom modified software"

means software that is modified




(a)

in a manner that involves changes to the source code, and




(b)

solely to meet the requirements of a specific person

if



(c)

the purchase price or lease price, as applicable, is for the software
as modified, and




(d)

that purchase price or lease price is greater than double what it
would be for the software in its unmodified form;



"custom software"

means




(a)

software that is developed solely to meet the requirements of a
specific person, and




(b)

modifications to software referred to in paragraph (a), if the
modifications are performed for that specific person.




(2)

Custom software or custom modified software is exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if the
custom software or custom modified software is obtained by, or on
behalf of, the specific person referred to in the definition of
"custom software" or "custom modified software", as applicable, in
subsection (1) of this section, for that specific person's own use.




(3)

Custom software or custom modified software is exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act if the custom software or custom modified
software is sold, as part of a business sold as a going concern, by a
person who retains no rights or interests in the custom software or
custom modified software.




(4)

Software is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act if




(a)

the software is sold, as part of a business sold as a going concern,
by a person who retains no rights or interests in the software,




(b)

before the sale referred to in paragraph (a), the software was
modified




(i)

in a manner that involved changes to the source code, and




(ii)

solely to meet the requirements of a specific person, and




(c)

the purchase price or lease price, as the case may be, of the
modifications referred to in paragraph (b) was




(i)

segregated on the receipt, bill or invoice provided to the purchaser
or lessee, and




(ii)

greater than the purchase price or lease price, as the case may be, of
the software in its unmodified form.




(5)

Software source code in non-executable form is exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act.




(6)

Subsections (3) and (4) of this section are prescribed for the
purposes of the following provisions of the Act:




(a)

section 89 (2)
[tax on acquisition of eligible tangible personal property]
;




(b)

section 90 (4)

[tax on eligible tangible personal property brought into British
Columbia]

;




(c)

section 99 (6)

[tax on acquisition of exclusive product by independent sales
contractor]

.






Freedom of information and protection of privacy




60


Tangible personal property acquired under the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

and described in Schedule 1
[Schedule of Maximum Fees]
of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 155/2012, is exempt from tax imposed under Part
3 of the Act.






Repealed




60.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 117/2014, Sch. 4, s. 4.]






Purchases at duty free shop




60.2


Tangible personal property is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of
the Act if the tangible personal property is purchased at a duty free
shop, as defined in the

Customs Act

(Canada), by a person who is about to leave Canada.

[en. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 9.]





Delivery charge for aggregate




60.3

(1)


In this section:


"aggregate"
means quarry material and fill ordinarily used in the construction and
maintenance of civil and structural projects;



"delivery charge"

means a charge included under section 10 (2) (e) (i) of
the Act
[original purchase price of tangible personal property]
in the purchase price of tangible personal property.




(2)

The portion of the purchase price of aggregate that is a delivery
charge is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act if the
purchaser is not required to pay the delivery charge in order to
purchase the aggregate.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2018, s. 1.]





Purchases and leases on commercial vessels




60.4

(1)


Tangible personal property is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of
the Act if the tangible personal property is purchased or leased




(a)

on a passenger-carrying commercial vessel during the course of a
scheduled sailing




(i)

from a port in British Columbia to a port outside British Columbia,




(ii)

from a port outside British Columbia to a port in British Columbia, or




(iii)

between ports outside British Columbia,




(b)

from a person who has an established commercial presence in one or
more areas on board the vessel, and




(c)

for use only during the course of the scheduled sailing.




(2)

A person referred to in subsection (1) (b) is exempt from the
requirement to levy and collect tax in the circumstances described in
subsection (1) (a) and (b).

[en. B.C. Reg. 113/2019, Sch. 1, s. 1.]





Repealed




60.5


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 210/2022, s. (c).]




Division 12 — Evidence Relating to Exemptions under Act in Respect of
Tangible Personal Property





Evidence relating to exemption under section 44 (2) of Act




61


For the purposes of section 44 (2)

[evidence required to claim exemption if lease under sale and
lease-back arrangement]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that tangible personal
property is exempt under section 44 (1) of the Act from tax imposed
under Division 3 of Part 3 of the Act, the collector is required to
obtain




(a)

a document evidencing the purchase of the tangible personal property
by that person, and




(b)

a document evidencing the payment of tax referred to in subparagraph
(i), (ii) or (iii) of section 44 (1) (b) of the Act in respect of the
tangible personal property by that person.






Evidence relating to exemption of natural gas under section 140 of Act




61.1


For the purposes of section 145 (1.1)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that natural gas, as
defined in the

Motor Fuel Tax Act

, is exempt under section 140
[exemption in relation to fuel]
of the Act, the collector is required to obtain a declaration in a
form acceptable to the director.

[en. B.C. Reg. 102/2015, App. 3, s. 1.]





Evidence relating to exemptions under section 141 (1) of Act




62


For the purposes of section 145 (1.1)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that tangible personal
property is exempt under section 141 (1)
[exemptions in relation to industry and commerce]
of the Act, the collector is required to obtain




(a)

that person's registration number, or




(b)

if that person does not have a registration number, a declaration in a
form acceptable to the director.






Evidence relating to exemptions under section 142 of Act




63


For the purposes of section 145 (1.1)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that tangible personal
property is exempt under section 142

[exemptions for tangible personal property intended for lease]

of the Act, the collector is required to obtain




(a)

that person's registration number, or




(b)

if that person does not have a registration number, a declaration in a
form acceptable to the director.




Part 3 — Exemptions in Relation to Software



Division 1 — Exemptions in Relation to Software





Software obtained by qualifying school, school board or similar
authority




64

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), software is exempt from tax imposed under
Part 4 of the Act, other than section 109 of that Part, if the
software is obtained by a qualifying school, school board or similar
authority for use substantially as a teaching aid for students.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to software obtained
for use by teachers to assess or evaluate students or to report on
students' progress.




(3)

Subsection (1) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (1) (b)
[provisions providing exemptions in relation to software]
of the Act.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 2, s. 3.]





New resident's effects — software




65

(1)


Software is exempt from tax imposed under section 106
[tax on use of software on device in British Columbia]
of the Act if the software was purchased by an individual




(a)

for use solely for a non-business purpose, and




(b)

at least 30 days before the individual became a resident of British
Columbia.




(2)

Software that qualified for an exemption under subsection (1) on the
date on which the software was first used in British Columbia and that
is subsequently used for a business purpose is exempt from tax imposed
under section 109
[tax if use of software changes]
of the Act if




(a)

the use of the software for a business purpose does not begin within
the first 6 months after the individual referred to in subsection (1)
of this section became a resident of British Columbia,




(b)

the software was owned and used by that individual for more than 3
years before that individual became a resident of British Columbia,
and




(c)

the individual referred to in subsection (1)




(i)

previously paid tax under the Act or the
Social Service Tax Act
in respect of the software and has not obtained and is not entitled to
obtain, under those Acts, a refund of that tax,




(ii)

previously paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division
IV.1 of Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

in respect of the software and has not obtained and is not entitled to
obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a credit or rebate
for that tax, or




(iii)

previously paid sales tax in respect of the software to another
province and has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain a refund
of or a credit or rebate for that sales tax.






Commercial fishers




66

(1)


Software designed for use on electronic monitoring equipment described
in item 22 of Schedule 3
[Fishing Equipment for Commercial Fishing Purpose]
is exempt from tax imposed under Part 4 of the Act, other than section
109 of that Part, if




(a)

the software is obtained by a qualifying commercial fisher for use on
electronic monitoring equipment described in item 22 of Schedule 3,
and




(b)

the electronic monitoring equipment is to be used by a qualifying
commercial fisher solely for a commercial fishing purpose.




(2)

Subsection (1) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (1) (b)
[provisions providing exemptions in relation to software]
of the Act.




(3)

For the purposes of section 145 (1.1) (a)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that software is
exempt under subsection (1) of this section, the collector is required
to obtain a declaration in a form acceptable to the director.






Transfer due to dissolution of marriage or relationship




67


An individual is exempt from tax imposed under Part 4 of the Act in
respect of software transferred to the individual from a spouse or
former spouse of the individual under




(a)

an agreement dividing property under Part 5
[Property Division]
or 6
[Pension Division]
of the

Family Law Act

,




(b)

a written separation agreement, or a marriage agreement, referred to
in the
Family Relations Act
, or




(c)

an order of a court on the dissolution of a marriage or marriage-like
relationship.






Custom software, custom modified software and other software




68

(1)


In this section:



"custom modified software"

means software that is modified




(a)

in a manner that involves changes to the source code, and




(b)

solely to meet the requirements of a specific person

if



(c)

the purchase price is for the software as modified, and




(d)

that purchase price is greater than double what it would be for the
software in its unmodified form;



"custom software"

means




(a)

software that is developed solely to meet the requirements of a
specific person, and




(b)

modifications to software referred to in paragraph (a), if the
modifications are performed for that specific person.




(2)

Custom software or custom modified software is exempt from tax imposed
under Part 4 of the Act, other than section 109 of that Part, if the
custom software or custom modified software is obtained by, or on
behalf of, the specific person referred to in the definition of
"custom software" or "custom modified software", as applicable, in
subsection (1) of this section, for that specific person's own use.




(3)

Custom software or custom modified software is exempt from tax imposed
under Part 4 of the Act if the custom software or custom modified
software is sold, as part of a business sold as a going concern, by a
person who retains no rights or interests in the custom software or
custom modified software.




(4)

Software is exempt from tax imposed under Part 4 of the Act if




(a)

the software is sold, as part of a business sold as a going concern,
by a person who retains no rights or interests in the software,




(b)

before the sale referred to in paragraph (a), the software was
modified




(i)

in a manner that involved changes to the source code, and




(ii)

solely to meet the requirements of a specific person, and




(c)

the purchase price or lease price, as the case may be, of the
modifications referred to in paragraph (b) was




(i)

segregated on the receipt, bill or invoice provided to the purchaser
or lessee, and




(ii)

greater than the purchase price or lease price, as the case may be, of
the software in its unmodified form.




(5)

Software source code in non-executable form is exempt from tax imposed
under Part 4 of the Act.




(6)

Subsections (3) and (4) of this section are prescribed for the
purposes of section 112 (2)
[tax on purchase of software by small seller]
of the Act.






Software purchased by First Nation individual or band




68.1

(1)


Software is exempt from tax imposed under Part 4 of the Act if the
software is




(a)

purchased by a First Nation individual or a band, and




(b)

for use on or with an electronic device that is




(i)

owned or leased by the First Nation individual or band, and




(ii)

ordinarily situated on First Nation land.




(2)

Subsection (1) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (1) (b)
[provisions providing exemptions in relation to software]
of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 10.]





Software incorporated into prototypes




69


For the purposes of section 113 (1) (d)
[exemptions in relation to software for prototypes]
of the Act,




(a)

software that is not specifically designed for a prototype referred to
in that provision is prescribed software, and




(b)

making a copy of a prototype solely for the purpose of testing the
prototype as part of the research and development activities referred
to in that provision is a prescribed purpose.




Division 2 — Evidence Relating to Exemptions under Act in Respect of
Software





Evidence relating to exemptions under section 113 (1) of Act




70


For the purposes of section 145 (1.1)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that software is
exempt under section 113 (1)
[exemptions in relation to software]
of the Act, the collector is required to obtain




(a)

that person's registration number, or




(b)

if that person does not have a registration number, a declaration in a
form acceptable to the director.




Part 4 — Exemptions in Relation to Services



Division 1 — Services Related to Purchase





Motor vehicle conversion for individuals with disabilities




71


A purchaser to whom section 116

[tax if contract for property conversion related to purchase]

of the Act applies is exempt from tax imposed under that section if
the processing, fabrication, manufacturing, attachment or
incorporation referred to in subsection (2) (b) of that section is
solely for the purpose of




(a)

modifying a motor vehicle, other than a multijurisdictional vehicle,
to facilitate the use of the vehicle by, or the transportation of, an
individual using a wheelchair, or




(b)

equipping a motor vehicle, other than a multijurisdictional vehicle,
with an auxiliary driving control to facilitate the operation of the
vehicle by an individual with a disability.






Motor vehicle modification for individuals with disabilities




72


A purchaser to whom section 117
[tax if contract for modification of purchased property]
of the Act applies is exempt from tax imposed under that section if
the modification or processing of the tangible personal property
referred to in subsection (2) (b) of that section is solely for the
purpose of




(a)

modifying a motor vehicle, other than a multijurisdictional vehicle,
to facilitate the use of the vehicle by, or the transportation of, an
individual using a wheelchair, or




(b)

equipping a motor vehicle, other than a multijurisdictional vehicle,
with an auxiliary driving control to facilitate the operation of the
vehicle by an individual with a disability.






First Nation individual or band




72.1

(1)


A purchaser is exempt from tax imposed under section 116 or 117 of the
Act if




(a)

the purchaser is a First Nation individual or a band, and




(b)

the following are provided wholly on First Nation land:




(i)

in the case of section 116 of the Act, the processing, fabrication,
manufacturing, attachment or incorporation referred to in section 116
(2) (b) of the Act;




(ii)

in the case of section 117 of the Act, the modification or processing
of the tangible personal property referred to in section 117 (2) (b)
of the Act.




(2)

Subsection (1) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (2)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
taxable services]

of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 11.]



Division 2 — Related Services in Relation to Tangible Personal Property





Tangible personal property for which service is exempt — general




73

(1)


A related service provided in relation to the following tangible
personal property is exempt from tax imposed under Division 2 of Part
5 of the Act, other than section 120.1 of that Part:




(a)

tangible personal property that a person, other than a small seller,
stores, keeps or retains solely for the purpose of resale;




(a.1)

tangible personal property that a registrant stores, keeps or retains
solely for the purpose of leasing the tangible personal property to
other persons;




(b)

tangible personal property that would be exempt from tax imposed under
the Act if the tangible personal property were obtained on the date on
which the service is provided, other than tangible personal property
that would be exempt from tax under any of the provisions listed in
section 57 (2) and (3)
[parts]
of this regulation;




(c)

tangible personal property that




(i)

was brought or sent into British Columbia solely for the purpose of
having the particular related service and any other related service
provided in respect of the tangible personal property, and




(ii)

was, immediately after the particular related service and any other
related service was provided, transported outside British Columbia for
use outside British Columbia;




(d)

an animal;




(e)

a manufactured building;




(f)

affixed machinery, other than




(i)

travelling cranes and hoists that




(A)

run on rails or tracks attached to a building, and




(B)

are attached to the rails or tracks by flanged wheels, or rest on the
rails or tracks by their own weight, and




(ii)

affixed machinery, or parts of affixed machinery, that have been
removed from the site at which they were affixed or installed;




(g)

the following tangible personal property, if the tangible personal
property is designed for household use:




(i)

clothes dryers;




(ii)

clothes washers;




(iii)

curtains and draperies;




(iv)

dishwashers;




(v)

freezers;




(vi)

ovens;




(vii)

refrigerators;




(viii)

rugs and carpets;




(ix)

rug-cleaning and carpet-cleaning machines;




(x)

sewing machines;




(xi)

stoves;




(xii)

vacuums;




(h)

clothing and footwear, other than blades for skates;




(i)

a multijurisdictional vehicle;




(j)

tangible personal property that




(i)

is typically attached or applied to an individual, and




(ii)

is and remains attached or applied to the individual after the service
is provided.




(k)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 12.]




(2)

The following are prescribed for the purposes of section 145 (2)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
taxable services]

of the Act:




(a)

subsection (1) (a), (a.1), (c) and (i) of this section;




(b)

subsection (1) (b) of this section as it relates to tangible personal
property that is a trailer obtained for use solely with
multijurisdictional vehicles.




(3)

For the purposes of section 145 (2) of the Act, in relation to a
person who alleges that a related service is exempt under subsection
(1) (a) or (a.1) of this section, the collector is required to obtain




(a)

that person's registration number, or




(b)

if that person does not have a registration number, a declaration in a
form acceptable to the director.




(3.1)

For the purposes of section 145 (2) of the Act, in relation to a
person who alleges that a related service provided in relation to a
trailer obtained for use solely with multijurisdictional vehicles is
exempt under subsection (1) (b) of this section, the
collector is required to obtain the account number assigned to the
person




(a)

by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, if the person
licenses the vehicle in British Columbia under a licence to which a
prorating agreement applies, or




(b)

by the licensing authority in the jurisdiction in which the person
licenses the vehicle, if the person licenses the vehicle outside
British Columbia under a licence to which a prorating agreement
applies.




(4)

For the purposes of section 145 (2) of the Act, in relation to a
person who alleges that a related service is exempt under
subsection (1) (i) of this section, the collector is
required to obtain the account number assigned to the person




(a)

by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, if the person
licenses the vehicle in British Columbia under a licence to which a
prorating agreement applies, or




(b)

by the licensing authority in the jurisdiction in which the person
licenses the vehicle, if the person licenses the vehicle outside
British Columbia under a licence to which a prorating agreement
applies.


[am. B.C. Regs. 153/2013, s. 3; 216/2013, App. 1, s. 12 and App. 2, s.
4; 262/2021, Sch. 1.]






Tangible personal property for which service is exempt — farmers




74

(1)


A related service provided in relation to tangible personal property
described in Schedule 2
[Tangible Personal Property for Farm Purpose]
is exempt from tax imposed under Division 2 of Part 5 of the Act,
other than section 120.1 of that Part, if




(a)

the related service is purchased by a qualifying farmer, and




(b)

the tangible personal property is to be used solely for a farm
purpose.




(2)

Subsection (1) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (2)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
taxable services]

of the Act.




(3)

For the purposes of section 145 (2) of the Act, in relation to a
person who alleges that a related service is exempt under subsection
(1) of this section, the collector is required to obtain




(a)

the name, address, card number and expiry date as recorded on a BC
Farmer Identity Card issued to that person by the BC Agriculture
Council, or




(b)

a declaration in a form acceptable to the director.






Tangible personal property for which service is exempt — commercial
fishers




75

(1)


A related service provided in relation to a boat, a fishing net or
fishing equipment is exempt from tax imposed under Division 2 of Part
5 of the Act, other than section 120.1 of that Part, if




(a)

the related service is purchased by a qualifying commercial fisher,
and




(b)

the boat, fishing net or fishing equipment is to be used solely for a
commercial fishing purpose.




(2)

Subsection (1) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (2)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
taxable services]

of the Act.




(3)

For the purposes of section 145 (2) (a) of the Act, in relation to a
person who alleges that a related service is exempt under subsection
(1) of this section, the collector is required to obtain a declaration
in a form acceptable to the director.






Tangible personal property for which service is exempt —
aquaculturists




76

(1)


A related service provided in relation to tangible personal property
described in Schedule 4
[Tangible Personal Property for Aquaculture Purpose]
is exempt from tax imposed under Division 2 of Part 5 of the Act,
other than section 120.1 of that Part, if




(a)

the related service is purchased by a qualifying aquaculturist, and




(b)

the tangible personal property is to be used solely for an aquaculture
purpose.




(2)

Subsection (1) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (2)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
taxable services]

of the Act.




(3)

For the purposes of section 145 (2) (a) of the Act, in relation to a
person who alleges that a related service is exempt under subsection
(1) of this section, the collector is required to obtain a declaration
in a form acceptable to the director.






Services provided outside British Columbia in relation to taxable
conveyance




76.1


A related service provided in relation to a taxable conveyance, as
defined in section 59 of the Act, is exempt from tax imposed under
section 120
[tax if related service provided outside British Columbia]
of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 13.]





Exempt services




77

(1)


Subject to section 77.2, the following related services are exempt
from tax imposed under Division 2 of Part 5 of the Act, other than
section 120.1 of that Part:




(a)

towing of a motor vehicle;




(b)

boosting of a motor vehicle battery, other than battery recharging;




(c)

roadside tire changing of a motor vehicle;




(d)

roadside unlocking of a motor vehicle;




(e)

waxing of a motor vehicle;




(f)

a service provided solely for the purpose of modifying a motor vehicle
to facilitate the use of the motor vehicle by, or the transportation
of, an individual using a wheelchair;




(g)

a service provided solely for the purpose of equipping a motor vehicle
with an auxiliary driving control to facilitate the operation of the
motor vehicle by an individual with a disability;




(h)

the following related services provided in relation to tangible
personal property, if no other related service, other than a related
service that is exempt from tax imposed under the Act, is provided in
relation to the tangible personal property:




(i)

diagnostic services, testing or safety inspections




(A)

provided to the tangible personal property, or




(B)

to provide an estimate for related services to the tangible personal
property;




(ii)

dismantling and any reassembly of the tangible personal property, if
the dismantling and any reassembly are provided solely for the purpose
of providing




(A)

diagnostic services, testing or safety inspections to the tangible
personal property, or




(B)

an estimate for related services to the tangible personal property;




(i)

services to inspect, repair or replace tangible personal property as a
result of a recall of the tangible personal property by its
manufacturer, if the services are purchased by the manufacturer;




(j)

services to inspect, repair or replace tangible personal property
under a warranty for which




(i)

the purchaser of the tangible personal property paid or agreed to pay
a charge described in section 10 (2) (i) of the Act, or




(ii)

the lessee of the tangible personal property made a payment or
provided consideration described in section 13 (2) (g) of the Act,


if the services are purchased by the person who provided the warranty;




(k)

services to inspect, repair or replace tangible personal property for
which




(i)

the purchaser of the tangible personal property paid or agreed to pay
a charge described in section 10 (2) (i) of the Act relating to the
maintenance of or service to the tangible personal property, or




(ii)

the lessee of the tangible personal property made a payment or
provided consideration described in section 13 (2) (g) of the Act
relating to the maintenance of or service to the tangible personal
property;




(l)

liquefying natural gas.




(2)

Subject to section 77.2, the following related services are exempt
from tax imposed under Division 2 of Part 5 of the Act, other than
section 120.1 of that Part:




(a)

attaching or applying tangible personal property to or removing
tangible personal property from an individual;




(b)

services that are provided to an electronic device and that consist of




(i)

installing software on the electronic device,




(ii)

removing software or data from the electronic device,




(iii)

relocating, modifying or copying software or data on the electronic
device, or




(iv)

installing data on the electronic device, if the purpose of the
installation is to back up data installed on another electronic
device;




(c)

installing tangible personal property as part of a window display
service;




(d)

erecting, constructing or assembling the following tangible personal
property, if the tangible personal property is for use in the
construction, demolition, adjustment, repair, renovation, restoration
or maintenance of real property or affixed machinery:




(i)

scaffolding, formwork, hoarding or other temporary protective
coverings;




(ii)

construction cranes;




(iii)

temporary power or other utilities;




(e)

dismantling tangible personal property described in paragraph (d) (i),
(ii) or (iii), if the tangible personal property was used in the
construction, demolition, adjustment, repair, renovation, restoration
or maintenance of real property or affixed machinery;




(f)

cleaning services provided in relation to tangible personal property,
if no other related service, other than a related service that is
exempt from tax imposed under the Act, is provided in relation to the
tangible personal property;




(g)

moving services;




(h)

courier and mail services;




(i)

freight transportation services;




(j)

disposal services;




(k)

services that measure, weigh, grade or classify tangible personal
property, if no other related service, other than a related service
that is exempt from tax imposed under the Act, is provided in relation
to the tangible personal property;




(l)

engraving services;




(m)

packaging tangible personal property;




(n)

numbering pages, collating pages and folding pages;




(o)

cutting tangible personal property, other than cutting that is part or
all of a service to repair, restore or recondition the tangible
personal property, and only if no other related service, other than a
related service that is exempt from tax imposed under the Act, is
provided in relation to the tangible personal property;




(p)

services purchased by a corporation from a related corporation within
the meaning of section 148
[definitions and interpretation for Part 9]
of this regulation;




(q)

services that are




(i)

purchased by a First Nation individual or a band, and




(ii)

provided wholly on First Nation land;




(r)

services provided to grow plants if the service is provided at a
location other than on property owned, leased or used by the owner of
the plants.




(3)

Subsection (2) (q) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (2)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
taxable services]

of the Act.


[am. B.C. Regs. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 14 and App. 2, s. 5; 90/2015,
s. 1; 245/2020, s. (a).]






Related services on commercial vessels




77.1

(1)


A related service is exempt from tax imposed under Part 5 of the Act
if the related service is




(a)

purchased and provided on a passenger-carrying commercial vessel
during the course of a scheduled sailing




(i)

from a port in British Columbia to a port outside British Columbia,




(ii)

from a port outside British Columbia to a port in British Columbia, or




(iii)

between ports outside British Columbia, and




(b)

purchased from a person who has an established commercial presence in
one or more areas on board the vessel.




(2)

A person referred to in subsection (1) (b) is exempt from the
requirement to levy and collect tax in the circumstances described in
subsection (1) (a) and (b).

[en. B.C. Reg. 113/2019, Sch. 1, s. 2.]





Related services not exempt during lease of tangible personal property




77.2


In respect of tangible personal property leased by a lessor, the
exemptions set out in section 77 (1) and (2) (a) to (n) do not apply
to a related service provided by the lessor, or provided by a third
party through a contract with the lessor, during the lease of the
tangible personal property.

[en. B.C. Reg. 245/2020, s. (b).]



Division 3 — Accommodation





Exemptions in relation to accommodation




78

(1)


The following accommodation is exempt from tax imposed under Division
3 of Part 5 of the Act:




(a)

accommodation that is not listed on an online marketplace and for
which the charge for the unit of accommodation is $30 or less per day,
or $210 or less per week;




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 141/2018, Sch. 2, s. 1 (b).]




(c)

accommodation that is provided in a unit of accommodation to




(i)

an individual, other than a tourism agent, if the unit is occupied for
a continuous period of 27 days or more by




(A)

the individual,




(B)

the individual's employees,




(C)

members of the individual's family, or




(D)

members of the individual's employees' families,




(ii)

a person, other than an individual or a tourism agent, if the unit is
occupied for a continuous period of 27 days or more by




(A)

the person's employees, or




(B)

members of the person's employees' families, or




(iii)

a tourism agent, if the unit is occupied for a continuous period of 27
days or more by the same customer of the tourism agent;




(d)

accommodation that is




(i)

purchased by a First Nation individual or a band, and




(ii)

provided wholly on First Nation land;




(e)

accommodation that is provided in premises normally operated by or on
behalf of an employer to provide lodging to the employer's employees,
if the accommodation is purchased by an employee of the employer;




(f)

accommodation that is provided




(i)

to an employee of an employer or another person engaged by the
employer, and




(ii)

in a bunk house, trailer or other dwelling that is operated at an
industrial camp




(A)

by or on behalf of the employer or under a contract with the employer,
and




(B)

solely for the purpose of providing lodging substantially to the
employees of the employer or other persons engaged by the employer


during periods when those employees or persons are performing work or
services for the employer;




(g)

accommodation that is provided




(i)

by a religious or charitable organization, and




(ii)

at a summer camp or similar place;




(h)

accommodation that is provided without any of the following:




(i)

bed linen;




(ii)

heat, other than a wood-burning fireplace or wood-burning stove;




(iii)

electricity;




(iv)

indoor plumbing;




(i)

accommodation that is provided in tents;




(j)

accommodation that is provided by a person who does not list the
accommodation on an online marketplace and




(i)

whose gross revenue in the previous 12 months from the provision of
accommodation, including accommodation referred to in paragraphs (a)
to (i), is $2 500 or less, and




(ii)

whose reasonable estimate of gross revenue in the 12 months after the
12 months referred to in subparagraph (i) from the provision of
accommodation, including accommodation referred to in paragraphs (a)
to (i), is $2 500 or less.




(2)

Subsection (1) (d) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (2)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
taxable services]

of the Act.


[am. B.C. Regs. 216/2013, App. 2, s. 6; 141/2018, Sch. 2, s. 1;
154/2022, Sch. 2, s. 1.]




Division 4 — Legal Services





Definitions




79


In this Division:


"law firm"
has the same meaning as in the

Legal Profession Act

;



"notary firm"

means a legal entity or combination of legal entities providing
services described in section 18 of the

Notaries Act

.






Legal services provided under contract




80


Legal services are exempt from tax imposed under Division 4 of Part 5
of the Act if




(a)

the legal services are provided to a lawyer, law firm, notary or
notary firm by




(i)

an individual who provides legal services only to the lawyer, law
firm, notary or notary firm, but who is not an employee of the lawyer,
law firm, notary or notary firm for the purposes of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), or




(ii)

a law firm or notary firm that provides legal services only to the
lawyer, law firm, notary or notary firm,




(b)

the legal services are provided only in respect of a particular client
of the lawyer, law firm, notary or notary firm, and




(c)

the purchase price to the lawyer, law firm, notary or notary firm for
the legal services is to be included in the purchase price of legal
services billed or otherwise charged to the client by the lawyer, law
firm, notary or notary firm.

[en. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 15.]





Legal services provided to First Nation individuals




81

(1)


The following are exempt from tax imposed under Division 4 of Part 5
of the Act:




(a)

legal services purchased by a First Nation individual or a band, if
the legal services




(i)

relate to real property situated on First Nation land, or




(ii)

are performed on First Nation land;




(b)

legal services purchased by an aboriginal organization representing
the interests of Indians and bands, if the legal services relate to
any of the following:




(i)

aboriginal treaty or land claims negotiations;




(ii)

consultations with the government or the government of Canada in
relation to aboriginal rights or aboriginal title;




(iii)

negotiations with the government or the government of Canada in
relation to interim agreements that relate to aboriginal rights or
aboriginal title;




(iv)

negotiations that relate to existing treaties or treaty rights;




(v)

negotiations with other aboriginal organizations in relation to
overlapping treaty or land claims.




(2)

Subsection (1) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (2)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
taxable services]

of the Act.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 2, s. 7.]





Legal services provided to corporations




82


A corporation is exempt from tax imposed under Division 4 of Part 5 of
the Act in relation to legal services provided to that corporation by
an employee of a related corporation within the meaning of section 148
[definitions and interpretation for Part 9]
of this regulation.




Division 5 — Telecommunication Services





Telephone and communication services




83

(1)


In this section,

"public switched telephone network"

means a telecommunication facility, the primary purpose of which is to
provide, for compensation, a landline-based telephone service to the
public.




(2)

The following are exempt from tax imposed under Division 5 of Part 5
of the Act:




(a)

a telecommunication service in the form of a toll-free number, other
than if the telecommunication service is




(i)

acquired for family or domestic use, or




(ii)

a teleconference service.




(b)

a telecommunication service that is purchased by




(i)

the government,




(ii)

an agent of the government,




(iii)

a regional district,




(iv)

a municipality,




(v)

a fire department,




(vi)

a police department,




(vii)

the South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority,




(viii)

the Victoria Airport Authority,




(ix)

the British Columbia Ambulance Service,




(x)

British Columbia Emergency Health Services,




(xi)

British Columbia Transit, or




(xii)

the University of Victoria


in respect of its emergency communications systems from




(xiii)

E-Comm Emergency Communications for British Columbia Incorporated, or




(xiv)

the Capital Region Emergency Service Telecommunications Incorporated
(CREST);




(c)

conventional paging services that allow a person to receive, but not
to send, telecommunications by means of a pager;




(d)

subject to subsection (3), residential telephone services provided to
a purchaser by means of a wire or cable and through a public switched
telephone network.




(3)

The exemption under subsection (2) (d) does not apply to the
following:




(a)

long distance telephone services;




(b)

telephone services provided to a purchaser by means of the internet.


[am. B.C. Regs. 145/2013, App. 2, s. 13; 216/2013, App. 1, s. 16;
74/2016.]






Cable television services




84

(1)


In this section,

"basic cable television services"

means the minimum level of television services that a purchaser must
purchase from a provider of television services to receive any
television services from that provider.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), basic cable television services provided to
a purchaser by means of a wire or cable are exempt from tax imposed
under Division 5 of Part 5 of the Act.




(3)

The exemption under subsection (2) does not apply to television
services provided to a purchaser by means of satellite or the
internet.






Education programs




85


A telecommunication service that is provided to a purchaser as part of
the purchaser's participation in any of the following programs or
activities and is provided only to participants of the program or
activity by the person offering that program or activity is exempt
from tax imposed under Division 5 of Part 5 of the Act:




(a)

an educational program provided by a qualifying school or other
educational institution;




(b)

a training or instructional program designed to develop or improve the
knowledge, skills or abilities needed by individuals for a particular
trade, occupation or profession;




(c)

a lecture, presentation, seminar, workshop or similar activity
designed for educational purposes, if the participants in the activity
and the presenter or instructor utilize a telecommunication system to
send and receive telecommunications with each other in real time.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 17.]





Photographers




86


A purchaser is exempt from tax imposed under Division 5 of Part 5 of
the Act in respect of a telecommunication service if




(a)

the purchaser purchases the telecommunication service from a person
who produced a video specifically for the purchaser under a contract
with that purchaser,




(b)

the telecommunication service is a telecommunication service described
in paragraph (d) of the definition of "telecommunication service" in
section 1
[definitions]
of the Act in respect of the video referred to in paragraph (a) of
this section, and




(c)

the purchaser does not obtain the video, or copies of the video,
referred to in paragraph (a) in the form of tangible personal
property.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 18.]





Data back-up services




87


A telecommunication service that is provided to a purchaser for the
purpose of backing up the purchaser's data that is installed on an
electronic device is exempt from tax imposed under Division 5 of Part
5 of the Act.






Telecommunication service in relation to purchase of accommodation




88


A purchaser is exempt from tax imposed under Division 5 of Part 5 of
the Act in respect of a telecommunication service if




(a)

the purchaser purchases the telecommunication service from a provider
of accommodation, and




(b)

the telecommunication service is in relation to a purchase of
accommodation in British Columbia.






Telecommunication service purchased by First Nation individual or band




88.1

(1)


A telecommunication service is exempt from tax imposed under Division
5 of Part 5 of the Act if




(a)

the telecommunication service is purchased by a First Nation
individual or a band, and




(b)

the electronic device is




(i)

owned or leased by the First Nation individual or band, and




(ii)

ordinarily situated on First Nation land.




(2)

Subsection (1) of this section is prescribed for the purposes of
section 145 (2)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
taxable services]

of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 19.]





Telecommunication services on commercial vessels




88.2

(1)


A telecommunication service is exempt from tax imposed under Part 5 of
the Act if the telecommunication service is




(a)

purchased on a passenger-carrying commercial vessel during the course
of a scheduled sailing




(i)

from a port in British Columbia to a port outside British Columbia,




(ii)

from a port outside British Columbia to a port in British Columbia, or




(iii)

between ports outside British Columbia,




(b)

purchased from a person who has an established commercial presence in
one or more areas on board the vessel, and




(c)

provided for use only during the course of the scheduled sailing.




(2)

A person referred to in subsection (1) (b) is exempt from the
requirement to levy and collect tax in the circumstances described in
subsection (1) (a) and (b).

[en. B.C. Reg. 113/2019, Sch. 1, s. 3.]



Division 5.1 — Online Marketplace Services





Services provided by related corporation to online marketplace
facilitator




88.3


A purchaser to whom section 134.3 of the Act applies is exempt from
the tax imposed under that section in respect of an online marketplace
service if




(a)

the purchaser is an online marketplace facilitator, and




(b)

the purchaser purchases the online marketplace service from a related
corporation within the meaning of section 148
[definition of related corporation]
of this regulation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 128/2023, Sch. 3.]



Division 6 — Evidence Relating to Exemptions under Act in Respect of
Services





Evidence relating to exemptions under section 130 (3) of Act




89


For the purposes of section 130 (3)

[evidence required to claim exemption in relation to
telecommunication services]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that a
telecommunication service is exempt under section 134

[exemption if telecommunication service purchased for resale]

of the Act, the collector is required to obtain




(a)

that person's registration number, or




(b)

if that person does not have a registration number, a declaration in a
form acceptable to the director.






Evidence relating to exemptions under section 134.3 (4) of Act




89.1


For the purposes of section 134.3 (4)

[evidence required to claim exemption in relation to online
marketplace services]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that an online
marketplace service is exempt under section 134.4

[exemption if online marketplace service purchased for resale]

of the Act, the collector is required to obtain




(a)

that person's registration number, or




(b)

if that person does not have a registration number, a declaration in a
form acceptable to the director.

[en. B.C. Reg. 154/2022, Sch. 2, s. 2.]



Part 5 — Production Machinery and Equipment



Division 1 — Definitions and Interpretation





Definitions




90

(1)


In this Part:



"cost of development"

, in relation to Part 4 software, means the




(a)

direct cost of materials,




(b)

direct cost of labour, and




(c)

Part 4 software development overhead


of the software developer, but does not include tax under Part IX of
the

Excise Tax Act

;



"cost of extracting or processing"

, in relation to petroleum, natural gas or minerals, means the




(a)

direct cost of materials,




(b)

direct cost of labour, and




(c)

extraction or processing overhead


of the oil and gas producer or mine operator, but does not include tax
under Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

;


"develop"
, in relation to Part 4 software, does not include




(a)

providing a service, or




(b)

testing the Part 4 software, unless the testing is one step in, or
occurs immediately after, the development of the Part 4 software and
occurs at the software development site;



"local government body"

has the same meaning as in Schedule 1 of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

;



"local government corporation"

means a corporation whose taxable income, determined for the purposes
of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), is exempt from tax imposed under section 149 (1) (d.5) or
(d.6) of that Act;


"logging"
means




(a)

felling or bucking trees,




(b)

skidding or otherwise moving trees or logs to a landing or other first
point of accumulation, or




(c)

loading, unloading, sorting, storing or processing trees or logs at
landings, log dumps, sort yards, dry land sorts, booming grounds or
mill yards,

but does not include



(d)

construction or maintenance of landings, log haul roads or other
roads, or




(e)

silviculture;



"machinery or equipment"

includes apparatus;



"manufacture"

, subject to subsection (2), means




(a)

to fabricate or manufacture tangible personal property to create a new
product that is substantially different from the material or tangible
personal property from which the new product was made, or




(b)

to process tangible personal property by performing a series of
operations or complex operation that results in a substantial change
in the form or other physical or chemical characteristics of the
tangible personal property,


but does not include performing a non-qualifying activity;



"manufacturer"

means a person who manufactures a particular class of tangible
personal property




(a)

for sale, if there is a reasonable expectation that the total value of
sales of that class of tangible personal property will exceed $30 000
per year,




(b)

for lease or for the person's own business use, if there is a
reasonable expectation that the total manufacturing cost of that class
of tangible personal property will exceed $30 000 per year, or




(c)

for both a purpose referred to in paragraph (a) and a purpose referred
to in paragraph (b), if there is a reasonable expectation that the
total manufacturing cost of that class of tangible personal property
will exceed $30 000 per year;



"manufacturing cost"

, in relation to a manufacturer or a local government body or local
government corporation that manufactures tangible personal property,
means the




(a)

direct cost of materials,




(b)

direct cost of labour, and




(c)

manufacturing overhead


of the manufacturer, local government body or local government
corporation, but does not include tax under Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

;



"marketable product"

means petroleum or natural gas, whether it occurs naturally or results
from the refining or processing of petroleum or natural gas, that is




(a)

available for sale for direct consumption as a domestic, commercial or
industrial fuel or as an industrial raw material, or




(b)

delivered to a storage facility;



"mine operator"

means a person who extracts or processes minerals




(a)

for sale, if there is a reasonable expectation that the total value of
sales of those minerals will exceed $30 000 per year,




(b)

for the person's own business use, if there is a reasonable
expectation that the total cost of extracting or processing those
minerals will exceed $30 000 per year, or




(c)

for both a purpose referred to in paragraph (a) and a purpose referred
to in paragraph (b), if there is a reasonable expectation that the
total cost of extracting or processing those minerals will exceed $30
000 per year;



"non-qualifying activity"

means any of the following:




(a)

growing, harvesting or producing agricultural or aquaculture products,
or raising livestock;




(b)

logging;




(c)

the production of television programs, radio programs, motion
pictures, commercials, master films or master video tapes, or any
similar product in electronic format;




(d)

providing a service, other than a service described in section 103 (2)
or (3)
[service providers]
;




(e)

in respect of manufacturing tangible personal property or processing
petroleum, natural gas or minerals, carrying out an activity that is




(i)

cleaning, painting, staining, blending, combining, grading, grouping,
mixing, packaging, re-packaging, sorting, storing, screening, cutting,
drying or testing,




(ii)

transforming tangible personal property from a gaseous, liquid or
solid state to another one of those states by means of a change in
temperature or pressure, or




(iii)

generating heat,

unless,



(iv)

in the case of manufacturing tangible personal property, the
applicable activity




(A)

is combined with another activity that is not a non-qualifying
activity, and




(B)

occurs at the qualifying part of the manufacturing site,




(v)

in the case of processing petroleum or natural gas, the applicable
activity




(A)

is combined with another activity that is not a non-qualifying
activity, and




(B)

occurs at the well site or at the qualifying part of the processing
plant or refinery, or




(vi)

in the case of processing minerals, the applicable activity




(A)

is combined with another activity that is not a non-qualifying
activity, and




(B)

occurs at the qualifying part of the mine site;




(f)

in respect of manufacturing tangible personal property, carrying out
an activity that is




(i)

changing the voltage of electricity,




(ii)

crushing, dismantling, compressing, breaking down or shredding
tangible personal property for the purposes of recycling of that
tangible personal property, or




(iii)

for the purposes of disposing of tangible personal property,


unless such activity is combined with another activity that is not a
non-qualifying activity and occurs at the qualifying part of the
manufacturing site;



"oil and gas producer"

means a person who extracts or processes petroleum or natural gas




(a)

for sale, if there is a reasonable expectation that the total value of
sales of that petroleum or natural gas will exceed $30 000 per year,




(b)

for the person's own business use, if there is a reasonable
expectation that the total cost of extracting or processing that
petroleum or natural gas will exceed $30 000 per year, or




(c)

for both a purpose referred to in paragraph (a) and a purpose referred
to in paragraph (b), if there is a reasonable expectation that the
total cost of extracting or processing that petroleum or natural gas
will exceed $30 000 per year;


"primarily"
means more than 50%;


"process"
does not include performing a non-qualifying activity;



"processing plant"

means a plant in which petroleum or natural gas is processed and
includes any of the following units, or a unit that is a combination
of any of the following units:




(a)

a dehydrator;




(b)

a separator;




(c)

a sweetener;




(d)

a treater;



"qualifying minerals"

, in relation to a mine operator, means minerals extracted or
processed by the mine operator




(a)

for sale by the mine operator, or




(b)

for the mine operator's own business use;



"qualifying part"

, in respect of




(a)

a manufacturing site, means the part of the manufacturing site from
the point at which the raw material is received to the point at which
the finished product is first stored or first placed on a vehicle,
railway rolling stock, vessel, aircraft or other conveyance for
removal from the manufacturing site, whichever occurs first,




(b)

a processing plant or refinery, means the part of the processing plant
or refinery up to the point at which the petroleum or natural gas
being processed or refined has become a marketable product, and




(c)

a mine site, means the part of the mine site from the point at which
the raw material is extracted from the ground to the point at which
the finished product is first stored or first placed on a vehicle,
railway rolling stock, vessel, aircraft or other conveyance for
removal from the mine site, whichever occurs first;



"qualifying petroleum or natural gas"

, in relation to an oil and gas producer, means petroleum or natural
gas extracted or processed by the oil and gas producer




(a)

for sale by the oil and gas producer, or




(b)

for the oil and gas producer's own business use;



"qualifying software"

, in relation to a software developer, means Part 4 software developed
by the software developer




(a)

for sale by the software developer, or




(b)

for the software developer's own business use;



"qualifying tangible personal property"

, in relation to a manufacturer, means tangible personal property




(a)

in the particular class of tangible personal property referred to in
the definition of "manufacturer" in this subsection, and




(b)

manufactured by the manufacturer




(i)

for sale by the manufacturer, or




(ii)

for the manufacturer's own business use;



"software developer"

means a person who develops Part 4 software




(a)

for sale, if there is a reasonable expectation that the total value of
sales of that Part 4 software will exceed $30 000 per year,




(b)

for the person's own business use, if there is a reasonable
expectation that the total cost of development of that Part 4 software
will exceed $30 000 per year, or




(c)

for both a purpose referred to in paragraph (a) and a purpose referred
to in paragraph (b), if there is a reasonable expectation that the
total cost of development of that Part 4 software will exceed $30 000
per year;



"software development site"

means the place at which a software developer is located when the
software developer is developing Part 4 software, but, in respect of
Part 4 software being developed for sale, does not include a place at
which the purchaser of that Part 4 software is located.




(2)

The definition of "substantially" in section 1
[definitions]
of the Act does not apply to the definition of "manufacture" in
subsection (1) of this section.

[am. B.C. Regs. 120/2013, s. 1; 90/2015, s. 2.]





Interpretation




91

(1)


In this Part, a reference to use in relation to substantially or
primarily does not include storing, keeping or retaining.




(2)

Subject to subsections (3) and (4), in this Part, the use of machinery
or equipment in the construction of buildings, site preparation or the
construction or maintenance of roads is not a use that qualifies the
machinery or equipment for an exemption.




(3)

For the purposes of sections 94

[exploration for, discovery of or development of petroleum or
natural gas]

and 104
[logging]
, the use of machinery or equipment in site preparation is a use that
qualifies the machinery or equipment for an exemption.




(4)

For the purposes of sections 96
[exploration for minerals or development of mines]
and 97
[extraction or processing of minerals]
, the use of machinery or equipment in the construction or maintenance
of roads within the qualifying part of a mine site is a use that
qualifies the machinery or equipment for an exemption.

[am. B.C. Reg. 90/2015, s. 3.]



Division 2 — Exemptions for Machinery and Equipment





Definition




91.1


In this Division,
"qualifying person"
means a manufacturer, an oil and gas producer, a mine operator or a
person who is entitled to obtain machinery or equipment exempt under
section 103
[service providers]
of this regulation from tax imposed under the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 120/2013, s. 2.]





Manufacturing




92

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), the following are exempt from tax
imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part,
if obtained by a manufacturer:




(a)

machinery or equipment obtained for use in British Columbia primarily
and directly in the manufacture of qualifying tangible personal
property;




(b)

machinery or equipment obtained for use in British Columbia primarily
and directly in




(i)

the manufacture of tangible personal property, or




(ii)

the development of Part 4 software


for use in British Columbia in the manufacture of qualifying tangible
personal property.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) applies only to machinery or
equipment obtained for use primarily at the qualifying part of the
manufacturing site.




(3)

The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to




(a)

machinery or equipment, including transformers, pipes, valves,
fittings, pumps, compressors and regulators, obtained for use in
relation to the transmission or distribution of tangible personal
property, or




(b)

machinery or equipment obtained for use in relation to the
transmission or distribution of Part 4 software.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 20.]





Software development




93

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), the following are exempt from tax
imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part,
if obtained by a software developer:




(a)

machinery or equipment obtained for use in British Columbia primarily
and directly in the development of qualifying software;




(b)

machinery or equipment obtained for use in British Columbia primarily
and directly in the manufacture of tangible personal property for use
in British Columbia in the development of qualifying software.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) applies only to machinery or
equipment obtained for use primarily at the software development site.




(3)

The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to machinery or
equipment obtained for use in relation to the transmission or
distribution of Part 4 software or tangible personal property.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 20.]





Exploration for, discovery of or development of petroleum or natural
gas




94

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), machinery or equipment is exempt
from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of
that Part, if the machinery or equipment is obtained




(a)

by a person who, for commercial purposes, regularly engages in the
exploration for, discovery of or development of petroleum or natural
gas, and




(b)

for use substantially in the exploration for, discovery of or
development of petroleum or natural gas.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) applies only to the following
machinery or equipment:




(a)

drilling rigs, including the following machinery or equipment that is
part of a drilling rig:




(i)

derricks;




(ii)

substructures and foundations;




(iii)

circulating systems;




(iv)

pumps;




(v)

cement equipment;




(vi)

engines or power plants;




(b)

truck-mounted service rigs;




(c)

portable doghouses, portable winches and portable pickers;




(d)

boilers and steamers, required for heating blowout preventers;




(e)

parts of a pump truck, including




(i)

pumps, tanks, lines, pipes, controls, manifolds, drop boxes, mixing
hoppers and valves, and




(ii)

engines and transmissions;




(f)

hardware obtained for use during the drilling process, including drill
bits, drill collars, drill pipes, blowout preventers, casing, tubing,
fittings, couplings and thread protectors;




(g)

machinery or equipment obtained for use in well logging and drill stem
testing, including instrumentation;




(g.1)

machinery or equipment obtained for use in hydraulic fracturing during
the development of petroleum or natural gas, including hydration units
or trailers, proppant blenders and fracturing pumps;




(h)

machinery or equipment obtained for use during the production testing
phase, including separator vessels, dehydrators and heaters, pressure
piping systems and appurtenances, flare stacks, pumps and motors;




(i)

shelters obtained for use substantially as protective coverings for
machinery or equipment referred to in any of paragraphs (a) to (h);




(j)

support mats obtained for use substantially to support machinery or
equipment referred to in any of paragraphs (a) to (i) while the
machinery or equipment is stationary.




(3)

The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to automotive units
on which machinery or equipment, other than truck-mounted service
rigs, referred to in subsection (2), is transported.

[am. B.C. Reg. 90/2015, s. 4.]





Extraction or processing of petroleum or natural gas




95

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), the following are exempt from tax
imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part,
if obtained by an oil and gas producer:




(a)

machinery or equipment obtained for use in British Columbia primarily
and directly in the extraction or processing of qualifying petroleum
or natural gas;




(b)

machinery or equipment obtained for use in British Columbia primarily
and directly in




(i)

the manufacture of tangible personal property, or




(ii)

the development of Part 4 software


for use in British Columbia in the extraction or processing of
qualifying petroleum or natural gas.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) applies only to machinery or
equipment obtained for use primarily at the well site or at the
qualifying part of the processing plant or refinery.




(3)

The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to




(a)

machinery or equipment, including transformers, pipes, valves,
fittings, pumps, compressors and regulators, obtained for use in
relation to the transmission or distribution of tangible personal
property, or




(b)

machinery or equipment obtained for use in relation to the
transmission or distribution of Part 4 software.




(4)

Generators to be located primarily at a well site are exempt from tax
imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part,
if the generators are obtained




(a)

by an oil and gas producer, and




(b)

for use in relation to the extraction or processing of qualifying
petroleum or natural gas.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 20.]





Exploration for minerals or development of mines




96

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), machinery or equipment is exempt from tax
imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part,
if the machinery or equipment is obtained by a person who, for
commercial purposes, regularly engages in the exploration for minerals
or the development of mines and that machinery or equipment is




(a)

obtained for use substantially and directly in the exploration for
minerals or the development of mines,




(b)

a generator or motor for use substantially and directly to operate
machinery or equipment for the use referred to in paragraph (a) of
this subsection, or




(c)

safety equipment, a pump, ventilating equipment or a compressor
obtained for use substantially in the exploration for minerals or the
development of mines.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to cement trucks.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 21.]





Extraction or processing of minerals




97

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), the following are exempt from tax
imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part,
if obtained by a mine operator:




(a)

machinery or equipment obtained for use in British Columbia primarily
and directly in the extraction or processing of qualifying minerals;




(b)

machinery or equipment obtained for use in British Columbia primarily
and directly in




(i)

the manufacture of tangible personal property, or




(ii)

the development of Part 4 software


for use in British Columbia in the extraction or processing of
qualifying minerals.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) applies only to machinery or
equipment obtained for use primarily at the qualifying part of the
mine site.




(3)

The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to




(a)

machinery or equipment, including transformers, pipes, valves,
fittings, pumps, compressors and regulators, obtained for use in
relation to the transmission or distribution of tangible personal
property, or




(b)

machinery or equipment obtained for use in relation to the
transmission or distribution of Part 4 software.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 20.]





Geophysical surveying




98

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), machinery or equipment is exempt from tax
imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part,
if the machinery or equipment is obtained




(a)

by a person who, for commercial purposes, regularly engages in the
exploration for petroleum, natural gas or minerals or the development
of petroleum, natural gas or mineral deposits, and




(b)

for use substantially in the exploration for petroleum, natural gas or
minerals or the development of petroleum, natural gas or mineral
deposits.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) applies only to the following
machinery or equipment:




(a)

magnetometers, gradiometers and magnetic susceptibility meters;




(b)

gravity meters and other instruments designed to measure the elements,
variations and distortions of the natural gravitational force;




(c)

field potentiometers, meggers, non-polarizing electrodes and
electrical equipment for making measurements in drill holes;




(d)

equipment for electrical or electromagnetic surveying, including
self-potential meters, resistivity survey equipment, time and
frequency domain-induced polarization equipment, time and frequency
electromagnetic surveying equipment and inductive conductivity probes;




(e)

ground-penetrating radar equipment and side-looking aperture radar;




(f)

equipment for remote sensing, including




(i)

ultraviolet lamps, and




(ii)

reflectance, infrared and hyperspectral spectrometers;




(g)

instruments or equipment for seismic prospecting, including the
recording system, seismic instrumentation, geophones, cables, data
processing units, global positioning and navigation systems, recorder
box, blasting system, blaster and controller, seismic drilling
equipment, heli-drills, enviro-drills, vibrators and integrated
navigation systems;




(h)

scintillometers, spectral gamma-gamma density and Geiger-Muller
counters, gamma-ray spectrometers, potassium gradiometers and other
instruments for radioactive methods of geophysical prospecting;




(i)

acoustical survey equipment, including sonar, side-scanning sonar and
full wave form sonic loggers;




(j)

electrical amplifying devices, electronic amplifying devices and
electrical thermostats, designed for use with any of the machinery or
equipment described in paragraphs (a) to (i).






Pollution control




99


Machinery or equipment obtained for use substantially and directly in
the detection, prevention, measurement, treatment, reduction or
removal of pollutants in water, soil or air is exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if




(a)

the pollutants are attributable to




(i)

the manufacture of tangible personal property, or




(ii)

the extraction or processing of petroleum, natural gas or minerals,
and




(b)

the machinery or equipment is obtained by a qualifying person.




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 242/2020, s. 1 (c).]

[am. B.C. Reg. 242/2020, s. 1.]





Waste management




100

(1)


In this section,

"waste gas machinery or equipment"

means pipes, valves, fittings, pumps, compressors and regulators, and
other related machinery or equipment, obtained for use solely to
transmit




(a)

within a natural gas processing plant, or




(b)

from a natural gas processing plant to a disposal well


waste gas composed primarily of hydrogen sulphide and carbon dioxide
for use solely to inject the gas into the disposal well for permanent
disposal.




(2)

Waste gas machinery or equipment is exempt from tax imposed under Part
3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if the waste gas
machinery or equipment is obtained by an oil and gas producer.




(3)

Machinery or equipment obtained for use in British Columbia
substantially and directly




(a)

in carrying refuse or waste from machinery or equipment that is exempt
under




(i)

section 92
[manufacturing]
,




(ii)

section 95
[extraction or processing of petroleum or natural gas]
, or




(iii)

section 97
[extraction or processing of minerals]
, or




(b)

for exhausting dust or noxious fumes from machinery or equipment
referred to in paragraph (a)


is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than
Division 9 of that Part, if




(c)

the refuse, waste, dust or noxious fumes are attributable to the
manufacture of tangible personal property or the extraction or
processing of petroleum, natural gas or minerals, and




(d)

the machinery or equipment is obtained by a qualifying person.




(e)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 242/2020, s. 2 (c).]

[am. B.C. Reg. 242/2020, s. 2.]





Transmission or distribution of tangible personal property or software




101

(1)


Machinery or equipment is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the
Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if




(a)

the machinery or equipment is obtained by a manufacturer for use in
British Columbia primarily and directly in the transmission or
distribution of tangible personal property or Part 4 software at the
qualifying part of the manufacturer's manufacturing site,




(b)

the tangible personal property or Part 4 software to be transmitted or
distributed is primarily




(i)

qualifying tangible personal property,




(ii)

tangible personal property or Part 4 software that is to be attached
to or processed, fabricated, manufactured or incorporated into
qualifying tangible personal property, or




(iii)

tangible personal property or Part 4 software that is to be attached
to or processed, fabricated, manufactured or incorporated into
tangible personal property or Part 4 software for use in the
manufacture of qualifying tangible personal property, and




(c)

the machinery or equipment is obtained for use primarily at the
qualifying part of the manufacturing site.




(2)

Machinery or equipment is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the
Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if




(a)

the machinery or equipment is obtained by a software developer for use
in British Columbia primarily and directly in the transmission or
distribution of tangible personal property or Part 4 software at the
software developer's software development site,




(b)

the tangible personal property or Part 4 software to be transmitted or
distributed is primarily




(i)

qualifying software,




(ii)

Part 4 software that is to be attached to or processed, fabricated,
manufactured or incorporated into qualifying software, or




(iii)

tangible personal property or Part 4 software that is to be attached
to or processed, fabricated, manufactured or incorporated into
tangible personal property or Part 4 software for use in the
development of qualifying software, and




(c)

the machinery or equipment is obtained for use primarily at the
software development site.




(3)

Machinery or equipment is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the
Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if




(a)

the machinery or equipment is obtained by an oil and gas producer or
mine operator for use in British Columbia primarily and directly in
the transmission or distribution of tangible personal property or Part
4 software at the oil and gas producer's well site, the qualifying
part of the oil and gas producer's processing plant or refinery or the
qualifying part of the mine operator's mine site,




(b)

the tangible personal property or Part 4 software to be transmitted or
distributed is primarily, as applicable,




(i)

qualifying petroleum or natural gas or qualifying minerals,




(ii)

tangible personal property that is to be attached to or processed,
fabricated, manufactured or incorporated into qualifying petroleum or
natural gas or qualifying minerals, or




(iii)

tangible personal property or Part 4 software that is to be attached
to or processed, fabricated, manufactured or incorporated into
tangible personal property or Part 4 software for use in the
extraction or processing of qualifying petroleum or natural gas or
qualifying minerals, and




(c)

the machinery or equipment is obtained for use primarily at the well
site, the qualifying part of the processing plant or refinery or the
qualifying part of the mine site.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 20.]





Electrical machinery or equipment




102

(1)


In this section,

"electrical machinery or equipment"

means




(a)

transformers, and




(b)

converters, inverters, regulators, breakers and switches, designed for
use with transformers.




(2)

Electrical machinery or equipment is exempt from tax imposed under
Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if




(a)

the electrical machinery or equipment is obtained by a manufacturer of
qualifying tangible personal property, other than electricity, for use
in British Columbia substantially in the transmission or distribution
of electricity at or to the qualifying part of the manufacturer's
manufacturing site,




(b)

the electricity is for use




(i)

primarily and integrally in the manufacture of qualifying tangible
personal property, or




(ii)

primarily to power machinery or equipment that is exempt under the
following provisions of this regulation:




(A)

section 92
[manufacturing]
;




(B)

section 99
[pollution control]
;




(C)

section 100
[waste management]
;




(D)

section 101

[transmission or distribution of tangible personal property or
software]

;




(E)

section 111

[machinery or equipment to operate, control or monitor qualifying
machinery or equipment]

, and




(c)

the electrical machinery or equipment is to be situated at the
manufacturing site.




(3)

Electrical machinery or equipment is exempt from tax imposed under
Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if




(a)

the electrical machinery or equipment is obtained by a software
developer for use in British Columbia substantially in the
transmission or distribution of electricity at or to the software
developer's software development site,




(b)

the electricity is for use




(i)

primarily and integrally in the development of qualifying software, or




(ii)

primarily to power machinery or equipment that is exempt under the
following provisions of this regulation:




(A)

section 93
[software development]
;




(B)

section 101

[transmission or distribution of tangible personal property or
software]

;




(C)

section 111

[machinery or equipment to operate, control or monitor qualifying
machinery or equipment]

, and




(c)

the electrical machinery or equipment is to be situated at the
software development site.




(4)

Electrical machinery or equipment is exempt from tax imposed under
Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if




(a)

the electrical machinery or equipment is obtained by an oil and gas
producer or mine operator for use in British Columbia substantially in
the transmission or distribution of electricity at or to the oil and
gas producer's well site, the qualifying part of the oil and gas
producer's processing plant or refinery or the qualifying part of the
mine operator's mine site,




(b)

the electricity is for use




(i)

primarily and integrally in the extraction or processing of qualifying
petroleum or natural gas or qualifying minerals, or




(ii)

primarily to power machinery or equipment that is exempt under the
following provisions of this regulation:




(A)

section 95
[extraction or processing of petroleum or natural gas]
;




(B)

section 97
[extraction or processing of minerals]
;




(C)

section 99
[pollution control]
;




(D)

section 100
[waste management]
;




(E)

section 101

[transmission or distribution of tangible personal property or
software]

;




(F)

section 111

[machinery or equipment to operate, control or monitor qualifying
machinery or equipment]

, and




(c)

the electrical machinery or equipment is to be situated at the well
site, processing plant, refinery or mine site.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 22.]





Service providers




103

(1)


In this section,
"service"
does not include a taxable service other than a related service.




(2)

Machinery or equipment obtained by a person who provides a service to
a manufacturer is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act,
other than Division 9 of that Part, if




(a)

the service consists of manufacturing in British Columbia tangible
personal property for the manufacturer and is provided to, or results
in the creation of, tangible personal property that is to be, or is to
be attached to or processed, fabricated, manufactured or incorporated
into, the manufacturer's qualifying tangible personal property,




(b)

the machinery or equipment is obtained for use primarily and directly
in providing the service,




(c)

the service is provided primarily at the qualifying part of




(i)

the manufacturer's manufacturing site, or




(ii)

the service provider's manufacturing site, and




(d)

there is a reasonable expectation that the total value of sales of
services, provided to manufacturers, that meet the requirements of
paragraphs (a) to (c) will exceed $30 000 per year.




(3)

Machinery or equipment obtained by a person who provides a service to
an oil and gas producer or mine operator is exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if




(a)

the service




(i)

consists of manufacturing in British Columbia tangible personal
property for the oil and gas producer or mine operator and is provided
to, or results in the creation of, tangible personal property that is
to be attached to or processed, fabricated, manufactured or
incorporated into the oil and gas producer's qualifying petroleum or
natural gas or the mine operator's qualifying minerals, or




(ii)

consists of extracting or processing for the oil and gas producer or
mine operator petroleum, natural gas or minerals in British Columbia
that are to be, or are to be attached to or processed, fabricated,
manufactured or incorporated into, the oil and gas producer's
qualifying petroleum or natural gas or the mine operator's qualifying
minerals,




(b)

the machinery or equipment is obtained for use primarily and directly
in providing the service,




(c)

the service is provided primarily at




(i)

the well site or qualifying part of the oil and gas producer's
processing plant or refinery or the qualifying part of the mine
operator's mine site, or




(ii)

the qualifying part of the service provider's manufacturing site,
processing plant, refinery or mine site, and




(d)

there is a reasonable expectation that the total value of sales of
services, provided to oil and gas producers or mine operators, as
applicable, that meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) to (c) will
exceed $30 000 per year.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 20.]





Logging




104

(1)


In this section,
"skidway"
does not include a road or landing.




(2)

Machinery or equipment is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the
Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if the machinery or equipment
is obtained by a person who, for commercial purposes, regularly
engages in logging and that machinery or equipment is obtained




(a)

for use in logging substantially for




(i)

felling or bucking trees,




(ii)

removing logs from the stump and depositing the logs in a landing or
other first accumulation point,




(iii)

loading, unloading, sorting, storing or processing trees or logs at
landings, log dumps, sort yards, dry land sorts, booming grounds or
mill yards, or




(iv)

developing skidways, or




(b)

for use substantially on a vessel and substantially for




(i)

launching or recovering, in relation to underwater logging operations,
machinery or equipment that is exempt under paragraph (a) (i) of this
subsection, or




(ii)

producing, regulating, transmitting or distributing electricity to
operate, in underwater logging operations, machinery or equipment that
is exempt under this section.






Local government power generation




105

(1)


Subject to subsections (3) and (4), machinery or equipment obtained
for use in British Columbia is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of
the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if the machinery or
equipment is obtained by a local government body or local government
corporation for use primarily and directly




(a)

to generate electricity,




(b)

to generate, at a cogeneration plant, electricity and heat, or




(c)

in the manufacture of tangible personal property for a use described
in paragraph (a) or (b) of this subsection.




(2)

Subject to subsections (3) and (4), machinery or equipment that is
obtained by a local government body or local government corporation
for use primarily and directly in the transmission or distribution of
tangible personal property at a manufacturing site, at which
electricity, or electricity and heat, referred to in subsection (1) is
generated, is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other
than Division 9 of that Part, if the tangible personal property
transmitted or distributed is primarily




(a)

electricity, referred to in subsection (1) (a), generated by the local
government body or local government corporation,




(b)

electricity and heat, referred to in subsection (1) (b), generated by
the local government body or local government corporation at a
cogeneration plant,




(c)

tangible personal property that is for use as an input in the
generation of electricity, referred to in subsection (1) (a), or the
generation of electricity and heat, referred to in subsection (1) (b),
at a cogeneration plant, or




(d)

tangible personal property that is to be attached to or processed,
fabricated, manufactured or incorporated into tangible personal
property for use as an input in the generation of electricity,
referred to in subsection (1) (a), or the generation of electricity
and heat, referred to in subsection (1) (b), at a cogeneration plant.




(3)

The exemptions under subsections (1) and (2) apply only to machinery
or equipment that is obtained for use primarily at the manufacturing
site, at which the electricity, or electricity and heat, referred to
in subsection (1) is generated, from the point at which tangible
personal property or a power source that is an input in the generation
is received to the point at which the electricity, or electricity and
heat, is first stored or first available for use, whichever occurs
first.




(4)

The exemptions under subsections (1) and (2) apply to a local
government body or local government corporation only if the generation
referred to in subsection (1) is for one of the following purposes:




(a)

for sale, if the local government body or local government corporation
has a reasonable expectation that the total value of sales will exceed
$30 000 per year;




(b)

for its own use, if the local government body or local government
corporation has a reasonable expectation that the total manufacturing
cost of the electricity, or electricity and heat, will exceed $30 000
per year;




(c)

for both a purpose referred to in paragraph (a) and a purpose referred
to in paragraph (b), if the local government body or local government
corporation has a reasonable expectation that the total manufacturing
cost of the electricity, or electricity and heat, will exceed $30 000
per year.

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 20.]





Vehicle-mounted machinery or equipment




106


A vehicle on which is mounted machinery or equipment that would be
exempt under this Division if the machinery or equipment were obtained
separately from the vehicle is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of
the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, in respect of the portion
of the purchase price or lease price of the vehicle that can
reasonably be attributed to that machinery or equipment.




Division 3 — Related Exemptions





Definitions




107

(1)


In this Division:



"excluded affixed machinery"

means machinery or equipment




(a)

that is described in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of the definition of
"affixed machinery" in section 1
[definitions]
of the Act, and




(b)

that, if the machinery or equipment were not described in any of those
provisions, would be affixed machinery;



"exempt machinery or equipment"

means




(a)

machinery or equipment, or




(b)

assembled machinery or equipment referred to in section 108
[parts and materials]


that would be exempt under Division 2 of this Part if the machinery or
equipment or assembled machinery or equipment were obtained on the
relevant date as set out in subsection (2);


"modify"
, in respect of qualifying machinery or equipment, means to facilitate
or enhance the performance by the qualifying machinery or equipment of
the function that the qualifying machinery or equipment performs in
relation to the use that qualifies it as qualifying machinery or
equipment;



"qualifying machinery or equipment"

means machinery or equipment




(a)

that is owned or leased by a qualifying person, and




(b)

that is




(i)

exempt machinery or equipment, or




(ii)

excluded affixed machinery that would be exempt machinery or equipment
if it were affixed machinery;



"qualifying person"

means a person who is entitled to obtain machinery or equipment exempt
under Division 2 of this Part from tax imposed under the Act.




(2)

For the purposes of this Division, the relevant date, referred to in
the definition of "exempt machinery or equipment" in subsection (1),
in respect of qualifying machinery or equipment referred to




(a)

in section 108 (1)
[parts and materials]
is the date on which the parts or materials referred to in that
provision in relation to the qualifying machinery or equipment are
obtained,




(b)

in section 109 (1)
[tangible personal property for use in providing services]
is the date on which the tangible personal property referred to in
that provision in relation to the qualifying machinery or equipment is
obtained,




(c)

in section 111

[machinery or equipment to operate, control or monitor qualifying
machinery or equipment]

is the date on which the machinery or equipment referred to in that
provision in relation to the qualifying machinery or equipment is
obtained,




(d)

in section 112 (2)
[software related to qualifying machinery or equipment]
is the date on which the software referred to in that provision in
relation to the qualifying machinery or equipment is obtained, or




(e)

in section 113
[services related to qualifying machinery or equipment]
is the date on which the related service referred to in that provision
in relation to the qualifying machinery or equipment is provided.

[am. B.C. Reg. 120/2013, s. 3.]





Parts and materials




108

(1)


Parts obtained by a qualifying person for use on qualifying machinery
or equipment, or materials obtained by a qualifying person to repair,
maintain or modify qualifying machinery or equipment, are exempt from
tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that
Part, if the parts or materials remain part of, or attached to, the
qualifying machinery or equipment after, as applicable,




(a)

the use of the parts or materials on the qualifying machinery or
equipment, or




(b)

the repair, maintenance or modification of the qualifying machinery or
equipment.




(2)

Parts or materials obtained by a qualifying person to assemble
machinery or equipment that would be qualifying machinery or equipment
under Division 2 of this Part, if the assembled machinery or equipment
were obtained by the qualifying person on the date on which the parts
or materials are obtained, are exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of
the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if the parts or materials
remain part of, or attached to, the assembled machinery or equipment
after assembly.




(3)

Parts or materials obtained by a qualifying person to assemble a part
that would be exempt under subsection (2) of this section, if the
assembled part were obtained by the qualifying person on the date on
which the parts or materials are obtained, are exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if the
parts or materials obtained remain part of, or attached to, the
assembled part after assembly.






Tangible personal property for use in providing services




109

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), tangible personal property is exempt from
tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that
Part, if




(a)

the tangible personal property is obtained for use in British Columbia
in the course of providing a service in relation to qualifying
machinery or equipment,




(b)

the tangible personal property is to remain part of, or attached to,
the qualifying machinery or equipment after the service has been
provided,




(c)

either




(i)

the service provided to the qualifying machinery or equipment is a
related service, or




(ii)

the qualifying machinery or equipment is excluded affixed machinery
and the service provided to the qualifying machinery or equipment
would be a related service if the qualifying machinery or equipment
were affixed machinery, and




(d)

the qualifying machinery or equipment is owned or leased by a
qualifying person.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to




(a)

tangible personal property, other than electricity used in an
electrolytic process, obtained for use to produce energy or for use as
a source of energy, or




(b)

tangible personal property, if the service provider is to retain an
interest in that tangible personal property after it has been made
part of, or attached to, the qualifying machinery or equipment.




(3)

Parts or materials obtained by a person providing a service referred
to in subsection (1) of this section to assemble tangible personal
property that would be exempt under that subsection, if the assembled
tangible personal property were obtained by that person at the time
the parts and materials are obtained, are exempt from tax imposed
under Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if the
parts or materials remain part of, or attached to, the assembled
tangible personal property after assembly.






Exclusions from exemptions under sections 108 and 109




110


Despite sections 108
[parts and materials]
and 109
[tangible personal property for use in providing services]
, the following are not exempt under those sections:




(a)

gases, liquids or consumable solids;




(b)

tangible personal property obtained for use primarily for repairing,
maintaining, modifying, assembling or making




(i)

bases or foundations, that are or become a part of real property, for
qualifying machinery or equipment, or




(ii)

scaffolding, walkways, catwalks or similar items, unless such items




(A)

are an integral part of the applicable qualifying machinery or
equipment, and




(B)

were obtained by the qualifying person as part of the applicable
qualifying machinery or equipment.






Machinery or equipment to operate, control or monitor qualifying
machinery or equipment




111


Machinery or equipment obtained by a qualifying person for use
primarily to operate, control or monitor qualifying machinery or
equipment is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act, other
than Division 9 of that Part, if the machinery or equipment is for use
substantially at the applicable well site or the qualifying part of
the applicable manufacturing site, processing plant, refinery or mine
site.






Software related to qualifying machinery or equipment




112

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), software is exempt from tax imposed under




(a)

Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, or




(b)

Part 4 of the Act, other than section 109 of that Part.




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) applies only to software obtained
by a qualifying person for use




(a)

primarily to operate, control or monitor qualifying machinery or
equipment, or




(b)

to operate particular machinery or equipment for use primarily to
operate, control or monitor qualifying machinery or equipment, if the
particular machinery or equipment is for use substantially at the
applicable well site or the qualifying part of the applicable
manufacturing site, processing plant, refinery or mine site.






Services related to qualifying machinery or equipment




113


A related service provided in relation to qualifying machinery or
equipment is exempt from tax imposed under Division 2 of Part 5 of the
Act, other than section 120.1 of that Part, if the related service is
purchased by a qualifying person.




Division 4 — Exclusions from Exemptions





Tangible personal property excluded from exemptions under Divisions 2
and 3




114


Despite Divisions 2 and 3 of this Part, the following are not exempt
under those Divisions:




(a)

buildings, furnishings, camp equipment or machinery or equipment
related to the use of a building as a building, other than shelters
that are exempt under section 94 (2) (i)

[shelters for machinery or equipment for petroleum or natural gas
exploration, discovery or development]

;




(b)

logging trucks, well-servicing trucks or any other vehicles designed
to be ordinarily used on a public highway, other than




(i)

truck-mounted service rigs that are exempt under section 94 (2) (b)

[truck-mounted service rigs for petroleum or natural gas
exploration, discovery or development]

, or




(ii)

bulldozers, backhoes and excavators that are exempt under section 96
[exploration for minerals or development of mines]
;




(c)

vessels, other than




(i)

boom boats obtained by a person described in section 104 (2)
[logging]
for use substantially for one or more of the purposes described in
paragraph (a) (iii) of that section, or




(ii)

vessels obtained by a person described in section 104 (2) for use
substantially in underwater logging operations to carry machinery or
equipment that is exempt under that section for use for one or more of
the purposes set out in paragraph (a) (i) or (ii) or (b) of that
section;




(d)

railway rolling stock, locomotive engines and non-turbine aircraft;




(e)

portable or mobile electric generators and portable or mobile electric
alternators, including drive motors for them, portable or mobile
generator and alternator sets, stand-by electric generators and
stand-by electric alternators, including drive motors for them, and
stand-by generator and stand-by alternator sets, other than machinery
or equipment that is exempt under




(i)

section 95 (4)
[generators at well site]
,




(ii)

section 96 (1) (b)

[generator or motor for exploration for minerals or development of
mines]

, or




(iii)

section 104 (2) (b) (ii)
[electrical equipment for underwater logging operations]
;




(f)

the following machinery or equipment, other than machinery or
equipment that is exempt under section 100 (2)
[waste gas machinery or equipment]
:




(i)

machinery or equipment obtained for use in transporting or
distributing petroleum or natural gas from a well site to a processing
plant or refinery or between processing plants or refineries, or in
transporting a marketable product, including pipes, valves, fittings,
pumps, compressors and regulators;




(ii)

machinery or equipment ancillary to the machinery or equipment
referred to in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph;




(g)

bases and foundations that become a part of real property;




(h)

scaffolding, walkways, catwalks and similar items, unless such items




(i)

are an integral part of tangible personal property that is exempt
under this Part, and




(ii)

are obtained as a part of that tangible personal property;




(i)

office machinery or equipment, other than machinery or equipment that
is exempt under section 93
[software development]
or 111

[machinery or equipment to operate, control or monitor qualifying
machinery or equipment]

;




(j) to (j.2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 90/2015, s. 5 (b).]




(k)

software, other than software that is exempt under section 112
[software related to qualifying machinery or equipment]
;




(l)

pallets and other packaging-related or transportation-related
machinery or equipment, unless the machinery or equipment is




(i)

obtained for use primarily in the transportation of tangible personal
property within a well site or software development site or within the
qualifying part of a manufacturing site, processing plant, refinery or
mine site, and




(ii)

intended to remain at the well site or software development site or
the qualifying part of the manufacturing site, processing plant,
refinery or mine site.


[am. B.C. Regs. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 23; 90/2015, s. 5.]






Persons excluded from exemptions under Divisions 2 and 3




115

(1)


In this section:



"food product"

does not include liquor, other than an alcohol-containing food
product;



"qualifying Crown corporation"

means any of the following:




(a)

the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority;




(b)

the British Columbia Railway Company;




(c)

the Columbia Power Corporation;




(d)

the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(2)

Despite Divisions 2 and 3 of this Part, tangible personal property and
software obtained, and related services purchased, by the following
are not exempt under those Divisions:




(a)

a person who is a caterer, if the person obtains the tangible personal
property or software or purchases the related services in the person's
capacity as a caterer;




(b)

a restaurateur or other person who obtains the tangible personal
property or software or purchases the related services in relation to
the person's preparation of food products for retail sale on the
premises where the food products are prepared, unless the retail sales
of those food products comprise less than 10% of the restaurateur's or
other person's total sales of food products;




(c)

the government and its agents, including agencies, boards and
commissions, other than qualifying Crown corporations;




(d)

except as provided for in section 105
[local government power generation]
, a local government body or local government corporation;




(e)

a corporation, other than a qualifying Crown corporation, whose
taxable income, determined for the purposes of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), is exempt from tax imposed under section 149 (1) (d) to
(d.4) of that Act;




(f)

schools, school boards and universities, including business, trade and
vocational schools;




(g)

hospitals;




(h)

regional health boards and community health councils designated under
the

Health Authorities Act

.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2016, Sch. 2, s. 5.]



Division 5 — Prescribed Provisions and Evidence Relating to Production
Machinery and Equipment





Definition




116


In this Division,

"tangible personal property exemption provisions"

means the provisions in Divisions 2 and 3 of this Part, other than
section 113
[services related to qualifying machinery or equipment]
.






Provisions prescribed for purposes of sections 89 (2), 90 (4), 99 (6)
and 112 (2) of Act




117

(1)


The tangible personal property exemption provisions are prescribed for
the purposes of the following provisions of the Act:




(a)

section 89 (2)
[tax on acquisition of eligible tangible personal property]
;




(b)

section 90 (4)

[tax on eligible tangible personal property brought into British
Columbia]

;




(c)

section 99 (6)

[tax on acquisition of exclusive product by independent sales
contractor]

.




(2)

Section 112
[software related to qualifying machinery or equipment]
of this regulation is prescribed for the purposes of section 112 (2)
[tax on purchase of software by small seller]
of the Act.






Provisions prescribed for purposes of section 145 of Act




118

(1)


The tangible personal property exemption provisions are prescribed for
the purposes of section 145 (1) (a)

[provisions providing exemptions in relation to tangible personal
property]

of the Act.




(2)

Section 112
[software related to qualifying machinery or equipment]
of this regulation is prescribed for the purposes of section 145 (1)
(b)
[provisions providing exemptions in relation to software]
of the Act.




(3)

Section 113
[services related to qualifying machinery or equipment]
of this regulation is prescribed for the purposes of section 145 (2)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
taxable services]

of the Act.






Declarations required under section 145 of Act




119

(1)


For the purposes of section 145 (1.1) (a)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that




(a)

tangible personal property is exempt under any of the tangible
personal property exemption provisions, or




(b)

Part 4 software is exempt under section 112
[software related to qualifying machinery or equipment]
of this regulation,


the collector is required to obtain a declaration in a form acceptable
to the director.




(2)

For the purposes of section 145 (2) (a)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
taxable services]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that a related service
is exempt under section 113
[services related to qualifying machinery or equipment]
of this regulation, the collector is required to obtain a declaration
in a form acceptable to the director.






Declaration required under section 30 (7) (a) of Act




120


For the purposes of section 30 (7) (a)

[evidence required to claim exemption in relation to tax payable in
respect of vehicle]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that a vehicle is
exempt under any of the tangible personal property exemption
provisions, the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia is required
to obtain a declaration in a form acceptable to the director.




Division 6 — Refund for Production Machinery and Equipment





Construction or maintenance of road for mine site




120.1

(1)


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person obtained machinery or equipment, other than by leasing the
machinery or equipment as a lessee, and paid tax imposed under Part 3
of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, in respect of the
machinery or equipment,




(b)

the person, for commercial purposes, regularly engages in the
exploration for minerals or the development of mines,




(c)

the machinery or equipment was obtained for use substantially and
directly for the construction or maintenance of a road within what
became the qualifying part of a mine site as a result of the
development of a mine, and




(d)

the machinery or equipment would have been exempt under section 96 or
97 of this regulation if what became the qualifying part of a mine
site had been a qualifying part of a mine site when the person
obtained the machinery or equipment,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid in
respect of the machinery or equipment.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply if, within 15 days after the date of
purchase or the entry date of the machinery or equipment, the
machinery or equipment is used, or allowed to be used, other than
substantially and directly for the construction or maintenance of a
road within what became the qualifying part of a mine site as a result
of the development of a mine.




(3)

If a person




(a)

receives a refund under subsection (1) in respect of machinery or
equipment, and




(b)

subsequently uses the machinery or equipment, or allows the machinery
or equipment to be used, for a purpose other than for use
substantially and directly for the construction or maintenance of a
road within what became the qualifying part of a mine site as a result
of the development of a mine,


the person must repay to the government an amount equal to the tax
that would have been payable under section 82
[tax if property used for new purpose]
of the Act as if the tax were payable under that section in respect of
the use of the machinery or equipment, or the allowed use of the
machinery or equipment, referred to in paragraph (b) of this
subsection.




(4)

Subsection (3) does not apply if the person subsequently uses the
machinery or equipment, or allows the machinery or equipment to be
used, for a purpose for which that machinery or equipment would be
exempt from tax under the Act if that machinery or equipment were to
be used for that purpose.

[en. B.C. Reg. 117/2014, Sch. 4, s. 5.]





Machinery or equipment leased for construction or maintenance of road
for mine site




120.2

(1)


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person leased machinery or equipment as a lessee and, in relation to
a rental period under the lease, paid tax imposed under Part 3 of the
Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, in respect of the machinery
or equipment,




(b)

the person, for commercial purposes, regularly engages in the
exploration for minerals or the development of mines,




(c)

at the time the lease was entered into the machinery or equipment was
leased for use substantially and directly for the construction or
maintenance of a road within what became the qualifying part of a mine
site as a result of the development of a mine, and




(d)

the person has not, before the end of the rental period, used that
machinery or equipment, or allowed that machinery or equipment to be
used, for a purpose other than




(i)

the particular purpose referred to in paragraph (c) of this
subsection,




(ii)

for use substantially and directly for the construction or maintenance
of a road in the qualifying part of a mine site, or




(iii)

another purpose for which that machinery or equipment would be exempt
under section 96 or 97 of this regulation,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid in
relation to the rental period under the lease.

[en. B.C. Reg. 117/2014, Sch. 4, s. 5.]



Part 5.1 — Specified Major Projects



Division 1 — Definitions





Definitions and interpretation




120.3


In this Part:



"cut-off date"

, in relation to a project, means the cut-off date specified in
Schedule 6 for the project;


"primarily"
means more than 50%;


"project"
means a project specified in Schedule 6.

[en. B.C. Reg. 196/2018, s. 1.]



Division 2 — Exemptions





Tangible personal property for use in project




120.4

(1)


Tangible personal property is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of
the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, if obtained




(a)

before the cut-off date for a project, and




(b)

for use primarily for the purposes of the project during the period
that




(i)

begins on the date the tangible personal property is obtained for that
purpose, and




(ii)

ends on the earliest of the following dates, as applicable:




(A)

the cut-off date for the project;




(B)

the date that is 2 years after the date referred to in subparagraph
(i);




(C)

the date on which the tangible personal property is sold or otherwise
disposed of;




(D)

if the tangible personal property was obtained under a lease, the date
on which the lessee ceases to lease the tangible personal property.




(2)

Tangible personal property is exempt from tax imposed under Division 9
of Part 3 of the Act if obtained and used as set out in subsection
(1) (a) and (b) of this section.

[en. B.C. Reg. 196/2018, s. 1.]





Software




120.41

(1)


In this section,
"qualifying infrastructure"
, in relation to a project, means qualifying infrastructure specified
in Schedule 6 for the project.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), software is exempt from tax imposed under




(a)

Part 3 of the Act, other than Division 9 of that Part, or




(b)

Part 4 of the Act, other than section 109 of that Part.




(3)

The exemption under subsection (2) applies only to software obtained,
before the cut-off date for a project, for use




(a)

primarily to operate, control or monitor qualifying infrastructure for
the project, or




(b)

to operate particular machinery or equipment for use primarily to
operate, control or monitor qualifying infrastructure for the project.

[en. B.C. Reg. 196/2018, s. 1.]





Services




120.42


A related service provided, before the cut-off date for a project, in
relation to tangible personal property that is exempt under section
120.4 of this regulation in relation to the project is exempt from tax
imposed under Division 2 of Part 5 of the Act, other than section
120.1 of that Part.

[en. B.C. Reg. 196/2018, s. 1.]





Electricity




120.43

(1)


In this section,
"qualifying worksite"
, in relation to a project, means a qualifying worksite specified in
Schedule 6 for the project.




(2)

Electricity is exempt from tax imposed under Part 3 of the Act if the
seller provides, before the cut-off date for a project, the
electricity through a meter that services only a qualifying worksite.

[en. B.C. Reg. 196/2018, s. 1.]



Division 3 — Exclusions from Exemptions





Tangible personal property excluded from exemptions under Division 2




120.5


Despite Division 2 of this Part, the following are not exempt under
that Division:




(a)

vehicles designed to be ordinarily used on a public highway, other
than bulldozers, backhoes and excavators that are exempt under section
120.4
[tangible personal property for use in project]
;




(b)

railway rolling stock, locomotive engines and non-turbine aircraft;




(c)

software, other than software that is exempt under section 120.41
[software]
;




(d)

electricity, other than electricity that is exempt under section
120.43
[electricity]
.

[en. B.C. Reg. 196/2018, s. 1.]



Division 4 — Prescribed Provisions





Definition




120.6


In this Division,

"tangible personal property exemption provisions"

means the provisions in Division 2 of this Part, other than section
120.42
[services]
.

[en. B.C. Reg. 196/2018, s. 1.]





Provisions prescribed for purposes of sections 89 (2),
90 (4), 99 (6) and 112 (2) of Act




120.61

(1)


The tangible personal property exemption provisions are prescribed for
the purposes of the following provisions of the Act:




(a)

section 89 (2)
[tax on acquisition of eligible tangible personal property]
;




(b)

section 90 (4)

[tax on eligible tangible personal property brought into British
Columbia]

;




(c)

section 99 (6)

[tax on acquisition of exclusive product by independent sales
contractor]

.




(2)

Section 120.41
[software]
of this regulation is prescribed for the purposes of section
112 (2)
[tax on purchase of software by small seller]
of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 196/2018, s. 1.]





Provisions prescribed for purposes of section 145 of Act




120.62

(1)


The tangible personal property exemption provisions are prescribed for
the purposes of section 145 (1) (a)

[provisions providing exemptions in relation to tangible personal
property]

of the Act.




(2)

Section 120.41
[software]
of this regulation is prescribed for the purposes of section
145 (1) (b)
[provisions providing exemptions in relation to software]
of the Act.




(3)

Section 120.42
[services]
of this regulation is prescribed for the purposes of section
145 (2)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
taxable services]

of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 196/2018, s. 1.]





Declarations required under section 145 of Act




120.63

(1)


For the purposes of section 145 (1.1) (a)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
tangible personal property or software]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that




(a)

tangible personal property is exempt under any of the tangible
personal property exemption provisions, or




(b)

Part 4 software is exempt under section 120.41
[software]
of this regulation,


the collector is required to obtain a declaration in a form acceptable
to the director.




(2)

For the purposes of section 145 (2) (a)

[evidence required to claim certain exemptions in relation to
taxable services]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that a related service
is exempt under section 120.42
[services]
of this regulation, the collector is required to obtain a declaration
in a form acceptable to the director.

[en. B.C. Reg. 196/2018, s. 1.]





Declaration required under section 30 (7) (a) of Act




120.64


For the purposes of section 30 (7) (a)

[evidence required to claim exemption in relation to tax payable in
respect of vehicle]

of the Act, in relation to a person who alleges that a vehicle is
exempt under section 120.4
[tangible personal property for use in project]
of this Part, the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia is
required to obtain a declaration in a form acceptable to the director.

[en. B.C. Reg. 196/2018, s. 1.]



Part 6 — Refunds





Medical equipment and software purchased with charity funds




121

(1)


In this section:



"charity funds"

means the funds of an eligible charity, other than funds provided
directly or indirectly by




(a)

a health authority, a health facility or a local authority,




(b)

the PHSA,




(c)

the government of British Columbia, except grants under section 41
[grants to eligible organizations]
of the

Gaming Control Act

, or




(d)

the government of Canada;



"community care facility"

has the same meaning as in the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

;



"health authority"

means a regional health board designated under section 4
[regional health boards]
of the

Health Authorities Act

;



"health facility"

means any of the following:




(a)

a hospital within the meaning of the

Hospital Act

, including a private hospital within the meaning of Part 2
[Private Hospitals]
of that Act;




(b)

a provincial mental health facility designated under section 3 (1)
[designation of mental health facilities]
of the

Mental Health Act

;




(c)

a community care facility, other than a child day care facility,
licensed under section 11
[powers of medical health officer]
of the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

;



"limitation date"

, in respect of an application for a refund under subsection (2) or
(3) of this section, is the date that is 4 years after the date on
which the tax to which the application relates was paid;



"medical equipment"

includes the following:




(a)

diagnostic medical imaging equipment;




(b)

defibrillators, ventilators and heart-lung machines;




(c)

infant warmers;




(d)

infusion pumps;




(e)

laboratory testing equipment;




(f)

medical monitors;




(g)

radiation, anaesthetic and intravenous equipment;




(h)

stretchers;




(i)

surgical equipment, surgical and medical instruments, surgical
sterilization equipment and operating tables,


but does not include the following:




(j)

couches, chairs, televisions, refrigerators, microwave ovens, pillows,
bedding and other items or equipment, that are typically used for
household purposes;




(k)

equipment used solely for research;




(l)

office equipment;


"PHSA"
means the Provincial Health Services Authority, a society under the

Societies Act

.




(2)

Subject to this section, if the director is satisfied that an eligible
charity, a health facility, a health authority or the PHSA paid tax
under Part 3 of the Act in respect of medical equipment that was
purchased




(a)

in whole or in part with charity funds of an eligible charity, and




(b)

for use by a health facility to treat a patient or diagnose a
patient's ailments,


the director must refund to the eligible charity referred to in
paragraph (a) of this subsection the lesser of




(c)

the amount of tax paid under Part 3 of the Act in respect of the
medical equipment, and




(d)

the amount calculated under subsection (4) of this section in respect
of the medical equipment.




(3)

Subject to this section, if the director is satisfied that an eligible
charity, a health facility, a health authority or the PHSA




(a)

meets the requirements of subsection (2) (a) and (b) in respect of the
medical equipment referred to in subsection (2), and




(b)

paid tax under Part 3 or Part 4 of the Act in respect of software that
was purchased




(i)

in whole or in part with charity funds of an eligible charity,




(ii)

together with the medical equipment, and




(iii)

for use to operate, control or monitor that medical equipment,


the director must refund to the eligible charity referred to in
paragraph (b) (i) of this subsection the lesser of




(c)

the amount of tax paid under Part 3 or Part 4 of the Act in respect of
the software, and




(d)

the amount calculated under subsection (4) of this section in respect
of that software.




(4)

The amount referred to in subsection (2) (d) in respect of medical
equipment and in subsection 3 (d) in respect of software is equal to
the amount determined by the following formula:




amount = tax paid ×




charity funds

(price + tax paid)











where


charity funds
=

the total amount of charity funds of the eligible charity used
to purchase the medical equipment or software;



price
=

the purchase price of the medical equipment or software;



tax paid
=

the amount of tax paid under Part 3 of the Act in respect of the
medical equipment or under Part 3 or Part 4 of the Act in
respect of the software.







(5)

An application by an eligible charity under section 165
[claim for refund]
of the Act for a refund under subsection (2) or (3) of this section
must include all of the following for each item of medical equipment
or software purchased with charity funds of the eligible charity:




(a)

the name and address of the health facility in which the medical
equipment is to be used;




(b)

the amount of charity funds provided by the eligible charity that were
used to purchase the medical equipment or software;




(c)

a statement signed by an officer of the eligible charity certifying
that charity funds of the eligible charity were used to purchase the
medical equipment or software;




(d)

if the medical equipment or software was purchased by a health
authority, a health facility or the PHSA,




(i)

documentation establishing that the eligible charity provided charity
funds directly to the health authority, the health facility or the
PHSA, as applicable, for the purpose of purchasing the medical
equipment or software, and




(ii)

a statement signed by an officer of the eligible charity authorizing
the director to discuss the application with the health authority, the
health facility or the PHSA, as applicable;




(e)

if the medical equipment was purchased by a health authority or the
PHSA, a statement signed by an administrator of the health authority
or the PHSA, as applicable, certifying




(i)

that the medical equipment is for use in the health facility referred
to in paragraph (a) to treat patients or diagnose their ailments, and




(ii)

that, if the health facility is a community care facility, the
facility is licensed under section 11 of the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

;




(f)

if the medical equipment was purchased by the eligible charity or a
health facility, a statement signed by an administrator of the health
facility referred to in paragraph (a) certifying




(i)

that the medical equipment is for use in the health facility to treat
patients or diagnose their ailments, and




(ii)

that, if the health facility is a community care facility, the
facility is licensed under section 11 of the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

.




(6)

An eligible charity may submit an application under section 165 of the
Act in respect of a refund under subsection (2) or (3) of this section
only if




(a)

the eligible charity has not submitted another application in the
calendar year, or




(b)

the application is submitted on, or during the 6-month period before,
the limitation date for that application.




(7)

For the purposes of subsection (6) (a), a single application that
relates to more than one refund under subsection (2) or (3) is to be
considered one application.

[am. B.C. Reg. 211/2015, s. 31.]





Tangible personal property and software purchased with parents'
advisory council funds




122

(1)


In this section:


"authority"
means




(a)

a board of education, as defined in the

School Act

, or




(b)

a francophone education authority, as defined in that Act;



"limitation date"

, in respect of an application for a refund under subsection (2) or
(3) of this section, is the date that is 4 years after the date on
which the tax to which the application relates was paid;


"PAC"
means a parents' advisory council;



"PAC-raised funds"

, in relation to a PAC, means




(a)

funds raised directly by the PAC through its fundraising activities,




(b)

cash donations made directly to the PAC, and




(c)

government funding provided directly to the PAC,


but does not include funds provided to the PAC directly or indirectly
by an authority;



"relevant school"

means




(a)

a school, as defined in the

School Act

,




(b)

a francophone school, or




(c)

a Provincial school


for which a PAC is established;



"school year"

has the same meaning as in the

School Act

.




(2)

Subject to this section, if the director is satisfied that a PAC or a
relevant school paid tax under Part 3 of the Act in respect of
tangible personal property, or under Part 4 of the Act in respect of
Part 4 software, that was purchased




(a)

in whole or in part with PAC-raised funds of the PAC, and




(b)

for use, at the relevant school for which the PAC is established, for
school or student use,


the director must refund to the PAC the lesser of




(c)

the amount of tax paid under Part 3 of the Act in respect of the
tangible personal property or under Part 4 of the Act in respect of
the Part 4 software, and




(d)

the amount calculated under subsection (4) of this section in respect
of the tangible personal property or Part 4 software.




(3)

Subject to this section, if the director is satisfied that an
authority paid tax under Part 3 of the Act in respect of tangible
personal property, or under Part 4 of the Act in respect of Part 4
software, that was purchased




(a)

in whole or in part with PAC-raised funds of a PAC, and




(b)

for use, at the relevant school for which the PAC is established, for
school or student use,


the director must refund to the authority the lesser of




(c)

the amount of tax paid under Part 3 of the Act in respect of the
tangible personal property or under Part 4 of the Act in respect of
the Part 4 software, and




(d)

the amount calculated under subsection (4) of this section in respect
of the tangible personal property or Part 4 software.




(4)

The amount referred to in subsection (2) (d) or (3) (d) in respect of
tangible personal property or Part 4 software is equal to the amount
determined by the following formula:




amount = tax paid ×




PAC funds

(price + tax paid)











where


PAC funds
=

the total amount of PAC-raised funds of the PAC used to purchase
the tangible personal property or Part 4 software;



price
=

the purchase price of the tangible personal property or Part 4
software;



tax paid
=

the amount of tax paid under Part 3 of the Act in respect of the
tangible personal property or under Part 4 of the Act in respect
of the Part 4 software.







(5)

An application by a PAC under section 165
[claim for refund]
of the Act for a refund under subsection (2) of this section must
include all of the following for each item of tangible personal
property or Part 4 software purchased with PAC-raised funds of the
PAC:




(a)

the name and address of the relevant school at which the tangible
personal property or Part 4 software is to be used;




(b)

the amount of PAC-raised funds provided by the PAC that were used to
purchase the tangible personal property or Part 4 software;




(c)

a statement signed by an administrator of the relevant school
certifying that the tangible personal property or Part 4 software is
for use at the relevant school for school or student use;




(d)

a statement signed by an officer of the PAC




(i)

certifying that PAC-raised funds of the PAC were used to purchase the
tangible personal property or Part 4 software, and




(ii)

authorizing the director to discuss the application with the relevant
school.




(6)

An application by an authority under section 165 of the Act for a
refund under subsection (3) of this section must include all of the
following for each item of tangible personal property or Part 4
software purchased with PAC-raised funds of the PAC referred to in
that subsection:




(a)

the name and address of the relevant school at which the tangible
personal property or Part 4 software is to be used;




(b)

the amount of PAC-raised funds provided by the PAC that were used to
purchase the tangible personal property or Part 4 software;




(c)

documentation establishing that the PAC provided PAC-raised funds
directly to the authority for the purpose of purchasing the tangible
personal property or Part 4 software;




(d)

a statement signed by an administrator of the authority




(i)

certifying that the tangible personal property or Part 4 software is
for use at the relevant school for school or student use,




(ii)

certifying that PAC-raised funds of the PAC were used to purchase the
tangible personal property or Part 4 software, and




(iii)

authorizing the director to discuss the application with the PAC and
the relevant school.




(7)

A person may submit an application under section 165 of the Act in
respect of a refund under subsection (2) or (3) of this section only




(a)

if, in respect of an application by a PAC, the PAC has not submitted
another application in the school year,




(b)

if, in respect of an application by an authority, the authority has
submitted fewer than 2 applications in the school year, or




(c)

if the application is submitted on, or during the 6-month period
before, the limitation date for that application.




(8)

For the purposes of subsection (7) (a) and (b), a single application
that relates to more than one refund under subsection (2) or (3) is to
be considered one application.

[am. B.C. Reg. 117/2014, Sch. 4, s. 6.]





Motor vehicle transported outside British Columbia




123

(1)


If the director is satisfied




(a)

that a person who resides, ordinarily resides or carries on business
in British Columbia purchased a motor vehicle at a sale in British
Columbia and paid tax under Part 3 of the Act on the purchase,




(b)

that, within 30 days after the date on which the motor vehicle was
purchased or the date on which the person took possession of the motor
vehicle, whichever is later,




(i)

the motor vehicle was transported outside British Columbia to another
jurisdiction for use solely outside British Columbia, and




(ii)

the person established residence in the other jurisdiction, and




(c)

that the person




(i)

paid sales tax under a law of the other jurisdiction in respect of the
motor vehicle and has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain,
under that law, a refund of or a credit or rebate for that sales tax,
or




(ii)

paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of
Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

in respect of the motor vehicle and has not obtained and is not
entitled to obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a credit
or rebate for that tax,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid referred
to in paragraph (a) of this subsection.




(2)

If the director is satisfied




(a)

that a person who does not reside, ordinarily reside or carry on
business in British Columbia purchased a motor vehicle at a sale in
British Columbia and paid tax under Part 3 of the Act on the purchase,
and




(b)

that, within 30 days after the date on which the motor vehicle was
purchased or the date on which the person took possession of the motor
vehicle, whichever is later, the motor vehicle was transported outside
British Columbia for use primarily outside British Columbia,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.




(3)

If the director is satisfied




(a)

that a person who does not reside, ordinarily reside or carry on
business in British Columbia purchased a motor vehicle at a sale in
British Columbia and paid tax under Part 3 of the Act on the purchase,




(b)

that, within 180 days after the date on which the motor vehicle was
purchased or the date on which the person took possession of the motor
vehicle, whichever is later, the motor vehicle was transported outside
British Columbia to another jurisdiction for use primarily outside
British Columbia, and




(c)

that the person




(i)

paid sales tax under a law of the other jurisdiction in respect of the
motor vehicle and has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain,
under that law, a refund of or a credit or rebate for that sales tax,
or




(ii)

paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of
Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

in respect of the motor vehicle and has not obtained and is not
entitled to obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a credit
or rebate for that tax,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid referred
to in paragraph (a) of this subsection.






Used motor vehicles




123.1

(1)


If, in respect of a purchase or acquisition of a motor vehicle to
which section 10.01 of the Act applies, a person provides the
appraised value to the director, in a form and containing information
acceptable to the director, within 30 days after the date of the
application for registration of the motor vehicle under the vehicle
registration legislation and the director is satisfied that




(a)

the person has paid to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
an amount of tax under section 37, 49, 50, or 52 of the Act, and




(b)

the designated purchase price and the appraised value are each less
than the average wholesale value,


the director must refund to the person that paid the amount of tax
referred to in paragraph (a) the amount referred to in subsection (2).




(2)

The amount of the refund under subsection (1) is equal to the
difference between




(a)

the amount of tax paid by the person to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia under section 37, 49, 50 or 52, and




(b)

the amount of tax payable on the greater of the designated purchase
price and the appraised value.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2022, Sch. 2.]





Resold motor vehicle




124

(1)


If the director is satisfied




(a)

that a person purchased a motor vehicle at a sale in British Columbia
and paid tax under Part 3 of the Act on the purchase, and




(b)

that, within 7 days after the date on which the motor vehicle was
purchased or the date on which the person took possession of the motor
vehicle, whichever is later, the motor vehicle was sold to another
person,


the director must refund to the person referred to in paragraph (a) of
this subsection the amount of tax paid referred to in that paragraph.




(2)

If the director is satisfied that a person paid tax under Division 2
of Part 5 of the Act in respect of a related service provided in
relation to a motor vehicle referred to in subsection (1) of this
section after the first sale referred to in that provision but before
the resale referred to in that provision, the director must refund to
the person the amount of tax paid.




(3)

Despite subsection (1) or (2), a refund must not be made on a claim
for a refund under this section that is received by the director after
October 1, 2021.

[am. B.C. Reg. 249/2021, s. (b).]





Promotional material




124.1

(1)


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a promotional distributor has provided promotional material to another
person by way of promotional sale, and




(b)

the promotional distributor has paid tax under the Act in respect of
the promotional material, other than in accordance with section 30.1
(1) or (2) of the Act,


the director must refund to the promotional distributor the amount
referred to in subsection (2) of this section.




(2)

The amount of the refund under subsection (1) is equal to the
difference between




(a)

the amount of tax paid by the promotional distributor, and




(b)

the amount of tax that would have been payable had the purchase price
of the promotional material been calculated at the time of the
promotional sale.

[en. B.C. Reg. 113/2019, Sch. 2.]





Aircraft converted to electric operation




124.2

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), if the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person obtained, other than by lease, an aircraft,




(b)

the person paid tax under one or more of the following:




(i)

section 37, 49, 55 or 100 of the Act in respect of the aircraft;




(ii)

section 37, 49 or 55 of the Act in respect of tangible personal
property that was later used to convert the aircraft to be powered
solely by electricity and became part of that aircraft;




(iii)

section 119 of the Act in respect of related services provided to the
aircraft to convert that aircraft to be powered solely by electricity,
and




(c)

the person later converted the aircraft to be powered solely by
electricity,


the director must refund to the person the total amount of tax
referred to in subparagraphs (i) to (iii).




(2)

If a person obtained, other than by lease, an aircraft for a purpose
other than to convert it to be powered solely by electricity,
subsection (1) does not apply to tax referred to in subsection
(1) (b) (i).




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply to tax paid before February 19, 2020.




(4)

This section does not apply in respect of remotely piloted aircraft.

[en. B.C. Reg. 243/2020, s. (b).]





Vehicle, boat or aircraft returned to seller




125


If the director is satisfied




(a)

that a purchaser purchased a vehicle, boat or aircraft from a person
other than a collector (the seller) at a sale in British Columbia and
paid tax under Part 3 of the Act on the purchase, and




(b)

that, within 30 days after the date on which the vehicle, boat or
aircraft was purchased or the date on which the purchaser took
possession of the vehicle, boat or aircraft, whichever is later,




(i)

the purchaser returned the vehicle, boat or aircraft to the seller,
and




(ii)

in return for the vehicle, boat or aircraft, the seller refunded to
the purchaser all or a portion of the purchase price,


the director must refund to the purchaser the amount of tax paid by
the purchaser that is attributable to the amount of the refund of the
purchase price.






Gift of vehicle, boat or aircraft between family members




125.1

(1)


In this section,
"related individual"
includes a sibling.




(2)

If the director is satisfied




(a)

that an individual received a vehicle, boat or aircraft as a gift from
a related individual,




(b)

that the individual paid tax imposed under section 100

[tax on gift of vehicle, boat or aircraft given in British Columbia]

of the Act in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft,




(c)

that, after the date the individual received the vehicle, boat or
aircraft, the related individual




(i)

was assessed an amount for tax payable under the Act, the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft, and




(ii)

paid the amount referred to in subparagraph (i), any related penalty
and any interest on that amount and the penalty, and




(d)

that the related individual did not receive the vehicle, boat or
aircraft as a gift during the 12 months before the date on which the
related individual gave that vehicle, boat or aircraft to the
individual,


the director must refund to the individual the amount of tax paid
under section 100 of the Act in respect of that gift of the vehicle,
boat or aircraft.

[en. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 24.]





Gift of vehicle, boat or aircraft to registered charity




125.2


If the director is satisfied




(a)

that a registered charity received a vehicle, boat or aircraft as a
gift,




(b)

that the registered charity paid tax imposed under section 100

[tax on gift of vehicle, boat or aircraft given in British Columbia]

of the Act in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft, and




(c)

that, after the date the registered charity received the vehicle, boat
or aircraft, the donor of the vehicle, boat or aircraft




(i)

was assessed an amount for tax payable under the Act, the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft, and




(ii)

paid the amount referred to in subparagraph (i), any related penalty
and any interest on that amount and the penalty,


the director must refund to the registered charity the amount of tax
paid under section 100 of the Act in respect of that gift of the
vehicle, boat or aircraft.

[en. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 24.]





Refund for prizes, draws and awards




125.3

(1)


In this section,
"donor"
, in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft, means the person from
whom the person referred to in subsection (2) (a) received the
vehicle, boat or aircraft.




(2)

If the director is satisfied




(a)

that a person received a vehicle, boat or aircraft as a result of any
of the following:




(i)

a lawful lottery scheme within the meaning of section 207 of the

Criminal Code

;




(ii)

a contest, a game of chance or skill or mixed chance and skill, or a
disposition by any mode of chance, skill or mixed chance and skill;




(iii)

an achievement in a field of endeavour, including athletic or sporting
events;




(iv)

a draw or awarding of a prize if the only consideration provided by
the person was in the form of an entrance or admission fee, a ticket
fee or another similar charge,




(b)

that the person did not receive the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a
result of a private arrangement, including a wager, between 2 or more
persons,




(c)

that the person paid tax imposed under section 100

[tax on gift of vehicle, boat or aircraft given in British Columbia]

of the Act in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft, and




(d)

that, after the date the person received the vehicle, boat or
aircraft, the donor




(i)

was assessed an amount for tax payable under the Act, the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft, and




(ii)

paid the amount referred to in subparagraph (i), any related penalty
and any interest on that amount and the penalty,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid under
section 100 of the Act in respect of that gift of the vehicle, boat or
aircraft.

[en. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 24.]





Gifts of tangible personal property from outside Canada




125.4

(1)


In this section,
"tangible personal property"
does not include a vehicle, boat or aircraft.




(2)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person paid tax under section 49, 50 or 55

[property brought into British Columbia from outside Canada]

of the Act in respect of tangible personal property that the person
received as a gift from a donor,




(b)

the donor of the tangible personal property




(i)

paid tax under the Act or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the tangible personal property and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under those Acts, a refund of that tax,




(ii)

paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of
Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

in respect of the tangible personal property and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a
credit or rebate for that tax,




(iii)

paid sales tax under a law of another jurisdiction in respect of the
tangible personal property and has not obtained and is not entitled to
obtain, under that law, a refund of or a credit or rebate for that
sales tax,




(iv)

received, before April 1, 2013, the tangible personal property as a
gift in British Columbia, or




(v)

was exempt, when the tangible personal property was obtained, from tax




(A)

under the

Social Service Tax Act

, or




(B)

under the Act, other than under section 24
[vehicle purchased for use outside British Columbia]
, 25
[aircraft purchased for use outside British Columbia]
or 26

[tangible personal property shipped outside British Columbia]

of this regulation,


the director must refund to the person referred to in paragraph (a)
the amount of tax paid referred to in that paragraph.


[en. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 24; am. B.C. Reg. 117/2014, Sch.
4, s. 7.]






Gifts, prizes, draws and awards from outside Canada




126

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), if the director is satisfied that




(a)

an individual paid tax under section 49, 50 or 55

[property brought into British Columbia from outside Canada]

of the Act in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft,




(b)

the individual received the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a gift from a
related individual, as defined in section 18 (1)
[gifts between family members]
of this regulation, and




(c)

the related individual




(i)

paid tax under the Act, the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under those Acts, a refund of that tax,




(ii)

paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of
Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a
credit or rebate for that tax,




(iii)

paid sales tax under a law of another jurisdiction in respect of the
vehicle, boat or aircraft and has not obtained and is not entitled to
obtain, under that law, a refund of or a credit or rebate for that
sales tax,




(iv)

received, before April 1, 2013, the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a
gift in British Columbia, or




(v)

was exempt, when the vehicle, boat or aircraft was obtained, from tax




(A)

under the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

, or




(B)

under the Act, other than under section 24
[vehicle purchased for use outside British Columbia]
, 25
[aircraft purchased for use outside British Columbia]
or 26

[tangible personal property shipped outside British Columbia]

of this regulation,


the director must refund to the individual referred to in paragraph
(a) the amount of tax paid referred to in that paragraph.




(2)

A person is not entitled to a refund under subsection (1) of tax paid
in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft if




(a)

the related individual referred to in subsection (1) (b) of this
section paid tax in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft only
under one or both of section 51

[tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for
temporary use]

of the Act and section 12
[calculation of tax if use in British Columbia temporary]
of the

Social Service Tax Act

, and




(b)

the total amount of tax referred to in paragraph (a) of this
subsection is less than the amount of tax paid referred to in
subsection (1) (a) of this section.




(3)

Subject to subsections (4) and (5) of this section, if the director is
satisfied that




(a)

an individual paid tax under section 49, 50 or 55 of the Act in
respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft,




(b)

the individual received the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a result of
any of the following:




(i)

a contest, a game of chance or skill or mixed chance and skill, or a
disposition by any mode of chance, skill or mixed chance and skill;




(ii)

an achievement in a field of endeavour, including athletic or sporting
events;




(iii)

a draw or awarding of a prize if the only consideration provided by
the individual was in the form of an entrance or admission fee, a
ticket fee or another similar charge, and




(c)

the person who provided the vehicle, boat or aircraft to the
individual




(i)

paid tax under the Act, the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under those Acts, a refund of that tax,




(ii)

paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of
Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a
credit or rebate for that tax,




(iii)

paid sales tax under a law of another jurisdiction in respect of the
vehicle, boat or aircraft and has not obtained and is not entitled to
obtain, under that law, a refund of or a credit or rebate for that
sales tax,




(iv)

received, before April 1, 2013, the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a
gift in British Columbia, or




(v)

was exempt, when the vehicle, boat or aircraft was obtained, from tax




(A)

under the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

, or




(B)

under the Act, other than under section 24
[vehicle purchased for use outside British Columbia]
, 25
[aircraft purchased for use outside British Columbia]
or 26

[tangible personal property shipped outside British Columbia]

of this regulation,


the director must refund to the individual referred to in paragraph
(a) the amount of tax paid referred to in that paragraph.




(4)

An individual is not entitled to a refund under subsection (3) if the
individual received the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a result of a
private arrangement, including a wager, between 2 or more persons.




(5)

An individual is not entitled to a refund under subsection (3) of tax
paid in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft if




(a)

the person referred to in subsection (3) (c) of this section paid tax
in respect of the vehicle, boat or aircraft only under one or both of
section 51

[tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for
temporary use]

of the Act and section 12
[calculation of tax if use in British Columbia temporary]
of the

Social Service Tax Act

, and




(b)

the total amount of tax referred to in paragraph (a) of this
subsection is less than the amount of tax paid referred to in
subsection (3) (a) of this section.


[am. B.C. Regs. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 25; 117/2014, Sch. 4, s. 7.]






Refund of tax paid by contractor




126.1

(1)


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a contractor purchased tangible personal property at a sale in British
Columbia,




(b)

the contractor paid tax under Part 3 of the Act in relation to the
tangible personal property,




(c)

the contractor used the tangible personal property to fulfill a
written contract under which the contractor was required to supply and
affix, or install, affixed machinery or improvements to real property,




(d)

under the terms of the contract, the tangible personal property was
used so that it ceased to be personal property at common law,




(e)

the other party who entered into the contract with the contractor is
one of the following:




(i)

the government of Canada;




(ii)

a person who would be exempt under the Act from tax imposed under
section 37 of the Act if the person were to purchase the tangible
personal property;




(iii)

a First Nation individual or band, and




(f)

in the case of a contract entered into with a First Nation individual
or band, under the terms of the contract, title to and possession of
the tangible personal property was transferred to the First Nation
individual or band on First Nation land before the tangible personal
property was used to fulfill the contract,


the director must refund to the contractor the tax paid under Part 3
of the Act in relation to the tangible personal property.




(2)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a contractor brought or sent into British Columbia, or received
delivery of in British Columbia, tangible personal property,




(b)

the contractor paid tax under Part 3 of the Act in relation to the
tangible personal property,




(c)

the contractor used the tangible personal property to fulfill a
written contract under which the contractor was required to supply and
affix, or install, affixed machinery or improvements to real property,




(d)

under the terms of the contract, the tangible personal property was
used so that it ceased to be personal property at common law,




(e)

the other party who entered into the contract with the contractor is
one of the following:




(i)

the government of Canada;




(ii)

a person who would be exempt under the Act from tax imposed under
section 49 of the Act if the person were to bring or send into British
Columbia, or receive delivery of in British Columbia, the tangible
personal property;




(iii)

a First Nation individual or band, and




(f)

in the case of a contract entered into with a First Nation individual
or band, under the terms of the contract, title to and possession of
the tangible personal property was transferred to the First Nation
individual or band on First Nation land before the tangible personal
property was used to fulfill the contract,


the director must refund to the contractor the tax paid under Part 3
of the Act in relation to the tangible personal property.

[en. B.C. Reg. 117/2014, Sch. 4, s. 8.]





Residential energy products used for residential use




127


If the director is satisfied that a person paid tax under Part 3 of
the Act, other than Division 11 of that Part, in respect of a
residential energy product used for residential use in a residential
dwelling, the director must refund to the person the amount of tax
paid by the person that can reasonably be attributed to the portion of
the residential energy product used for residential use in a
residential dwelling.






Substances on which tax paid under
Motor Fuel Tax Act




128

(1)


In this section,
"non-motor fuel oil"
has the same meaning as in the

Motor Fuel Tax Act

.




(2)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person paid tax under Part 3 of the Act in respect of heating oil or
non-motor fuel oil and has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain,
under the Act, a refund of that tax, and




(b)

the person paid tax under section 16.7 (5)

[tax on heating oil or non-motor fuel oil used for unauthorized
purpose]

of the

Motor Fuel Tax Act

in respect of the heating oil or non-motor fuel oil and has not
obtained and is not entitled to obtain, under that Act, a refund of
that tax,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid referred
to in paragraph (a) of this subsection.






Tangible personal property used for farm purpose




129

(1)


In this section,
"qualifying part"
has the same meaning as in section 46 (1)
[farmers]
.




(2)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person obtained tangible personal property described in Schedule 2
[Tangible Personal Property for Farm Purpose]
and paid tax under Part 3 of the Act in respect of the tangible
personal property,




(b)

the person, from the date on which the tangible personal property was
obtained, used the tangible personal property solely for a farm
purpose, and




(c)

the person, within 2 years after the date on which the tangible
personal property was obtained, became a qualifying farmer,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.




(3)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person obtained a qualifying part and paid tax under Part 3 of the
Act in respect of the qualifying part,




(b)

the person used the qualifying part




(i)

as a replacement part for tangible personal property described in
Schedule 2, or




(ii)

in the manufacture or repair of tangible personal property described
in Schedule 2,




(c)

the person, from the date on which the qualifying part was used for a
purpose referred to in paragraph (b) of this subsection, used the
tangible personal property solely for a farm purpose, and




(d)

the person, within 2 years after the date on which the qualifying part
was obtained, became a qualifying farmer,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.




(4)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person paid tax under Division 2 of Part 5 of the Act in respect of
a related service provided in relation to tangible personal property
described in Schedule 2,




(b)

the person, from the date on which the service was provided, used the
tangible personal property solely for a farm purpose, and




(c)

the person, within 2 years after the date on which the service was
provided, became a qualifying farmer,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.






Tangible personal property and software used for commercial fishing
purpose




130

(1)


In this section,
"qualifying part"
has the same meaning as in section 48 (1)
[commercial fishers]
.




(2)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person obtained a boat, fishing net or fishing equipment and paid
tax under Part 3 of the Act in respect of the boat, fishing net or
fishing equipment,




(b)

the person, from the date on which the boat, fishing net or fishing
equipment was obtained, used the boat, fishing net or fishing
equipment solely for a commercial fishing purpose, and




(c)

the person, within one year after the date on which the boat, fishing
net or fishing equipment was obtained, became a qualifying commercial
fisher,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.




(3)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person obtained software designed for use on electronic monitoring
equipment described in item 22 of Schedule 3
[Fishing Equipment for Commercial Fishing Purpose]
and paid tax under Part 4 of the Act in respect of the software,




(b)

the person, from the date on which the software was obtained, used the
electronic monitoring equipment solely for a commercial fishing
purpose, and




(c)

the person, within one year after the date on which the software was
obtained, became a qualifying commercial fisher,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.




(4)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person obtained a qualifying part and paid tax under Part 3 of the
Act in respect of the qualifying part,




(b)

the person used the qualifying part for the repair or reconditioning
of a boat, fishing net or fishing equipment,




(c)

the person, from the date on which the qualifying part was used for a
purpose referred to in paragraph (b) of this subsection, used the
boat, fishing net or fishing equipment solely for a commercial fishing
purpose, and




(d)

the person, within one year after the date on which the qualifying
part was obtained, became a qualifying commercial fisher,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.




(5)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person obtained materials for use in the repair or reconditioning of
a boat and paid tax under Part 3 of the Act in respect of the
materials,




(b)

the person used the materials for the repair or reconditioning of a
boat,




(c)

the person, from the date on which the materials were used for a
purpose referred to in paragraph (b) of this subsection, used the boat
solely for a commercial fishing purpose, and




(d)

the person,




(i)

on the date on which the materials were obtained, was a qualifying
commercial fisher, or




(ii)

within one year after the date on which the materials were obtained,
became a qualifying commercial fisher,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.




(6)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person paid tax under Division 2 of Part 5 of the Act in respect of
a related service provided in relation to a boat, fishing net or
fishing equipment,




(b)

the person, from the date on which the service was provided, used the
boat, fishing net or fishing equipment solely for a commercial fishing
purpose, and




(c)

the person, within one year after the date on which the service was
provided, became a qualifying commercial fisher,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.






Tangible personal property used for aquaculture purpose




131

(1)


In this section,
"qualifying part"
has the same meaning as in section 49 (1)
[aquaculturists]
.




(2)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person obtained tangible personal property described in Schedule 4
[Tangible Personal Property for Aquaculture Purpose]
and paid tax under Part 3 of the Act in respect of the tangible
personal property,




(b)

the person, from the date on which the tangible personal property was
obtained, used the tangible personal property solely for an
aquaculture purpose, and




(c)

the person, within 6 months after the date on which the tangible
personal property was obtained, became a qualifying aquaculturist,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.




(3)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person obtained a qualifying part and paid tax under Part 3 of the
Act in respect of the qualifying part,




(b)

the person used the qualifying part




(i)

as a replacement part for tangible personal property described in
Schedule 4, or




(ii)

in the manufacture or repair of tangible personal property described
in Schedule 4,




(c)

the person, from the date on which the qualifying part was used for a
purpose referred to in paragraph (b) of this subsection, used the
tangible personal property solely for an aquaculture purpose, and




(d)

the person, within 6 months after the date on which the qualifying
part was obtained, became a qualifying aquaculturist,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.




(4)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person paid tax under Division 2 of Part 5 of the Act in respect of
a related service provided in relation to tangible personal property
described in Schedule 4,




(b)

the person, from the date on which the service was provided, used the
tangible personal property solely for an aquaculture purpose, and




(c)

the person, within 6 months after the date on which the service was
provided, became a qualifying aquaculturist,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.






Claiming races




132

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), if the director is satisfied that, on or
after April 1, 2013, a person repurchased a horse at a claiming race
and paid tax under Part 3 of the Act in respect of the repurchase, the
director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.




(2)

As a limit on subsection (1), the amount of a refund under that
subsection must not exceed the amount of tax paid by the person, on
the most recent purchase of that horse by that person before the
horse's repurchase,




(a)

under the Act or the

Social Service Tax Act

and for which that person has not obtained and is not entitled to
obtain a refund under those Acts, or




(b)

under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of Part IX of
the

Excise Tax Act

, in respect of British Columbia as a participating province under
Part IX of that Act, and for which that person has not obtained and is
not entitled to obtain a refund, credit or rebate under Part IX of
that Act.






Tangible personal property and software used after tax paid under tax
payment agreement




132.1


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person paid tax under Part 3 of the Act in relation to tangible
personal property, or under Part 4 of the Act in relation to software,
in accordance with an agreement entered into under section 32 of the
Act,




(b)

the tax was payable on or before the date prescribed by section 14 (a)
(ii) or (b) (ii) of the Provincial Sales Tax Regulation, and




(c)

when the person became a user of the tangible personal property or
software, other than in respect of the storing, keeping or retaining
of the tangible personal property or software, the tangible personal
property or software was used for a purpose for which the tangible
personal property or software would have been exempt from tax under
Part 3 or 4 of the Act if that tangible personal property or software
were to have been used for that purpose when the person




(i)

brought or sent into British Columbia, received delivery of in British
Columbia, purchased or leased the tangible personal property, or




(ii)

purchased the software,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid in
relation to the tangible personal property or software.

[en. B.C. Reg. 117/2014, Sch. 4, s. 8.]





Delivery charge for aggregate




132.2

(1)


In this section,
"aggregate"
and
"delivery charge"
have the same meaning as in section 60.3
[delivery charge for aggregate]
.




(2)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a purchaser purchased aggregate on or after April 1, 2018,




(b)

the purchaser paid tax under Part 3 of the Act in respect of the
portion of the purchase price of the aggregate that is a delivery
charge, and




(c)

the purchaser was not required to pay the delivery charge in order to
purchase the aggregate,


the director must refund to the purchaser the amount of tax paid.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2018, s. 2.]





Purchase of accommodation for 27 days or more




133

(1)


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person paid tax under Division 3 of Part 5 of the Act in respect of
a purchase of accommodation, and




(b)

the accommodation was provided in a unit of accommodation to




(i)

an individual, other than a tourism agent, and the unit was occupied
for a continuous period of 27 days or more by




(A)

the individual,




(B)

the individual's employees,




(C)

members of the individual's family, or




(D)

members of the individual's employees' families,




(ii)

a person, other than an individual or a tourism agent, and the unit
was occupied for a continuous period of 27 days or more by




(A)

the person's employees, or




(B)

members of the person's employees' families, or




(iii)

a tourism agent, and the unit was occupied for a continuous period of
27 days or more by the same customer of the tourism agent,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), in applying that subsection in relation to
accommodation purchased before October 1, 2018, a reference to
"27 days or more" is to be read as a reference to "more than one
month".

[am. B.C. Reg. 274/2019, s. 1.]





Refund or deduction for bad debts




134

(1)


For the purposes of the definition of "specified amount" in section
159 (1)
[refund or deduction for bad debts]
of the Act, the specified amount in relation to a transaction must be
determined in accordance with the following formula:




specified amount = tax remitted ×




amount unpaid

(total amount payable)











where


amount unpaid
=

the amount written off as unrealizable or uncollectable in
respect of the transaction, but not including interest charges;



tax remitted
=

the amount of tax referred to in section 159 (2) (b) of the Act
remitted by the person in respect of the transaction;



total amount payable
=

the full amount of the consideration in respect of the
transaction including all applicable taxes, but not including
interest charges.







(1.1)

A registrant who makes a deduction under section 159 (3) of the Act
must submit to the director any information or document required by
the director.




(2)

For the purposes of section 159 (6) of the Act, the amount a
registrant must add to the tax remitted by the registrant under the
Act must be determined in accordance with the following formula:




amount to be added = tax remitted ×




amount recovered

(total amount payable)











where


amount recovered
=

the amount recovered by the registrant that gives rise to the
obligation under section 159 (6) of the Act to add an amount to
the tax remitted by the registrant under the Act;



tax remitted
=

the amount of tax referred to in section 159 (2) (b) of the Act
remitted by the person in respect of the transaction;



total amount payable
=

the full amount of the consideration in respect of the
transaction including all applicable taxes, but not including
interest charges.







(3)

For the purposes of section 159 (7) of the Act, the amount a person
must pay to the government must be determined in accordance with the
following formula:




amount to be paid = tax remitted ×




amount recovered

(total amount payable)











where


amount recovered
=

the amount recovered by the person that gives rise to the
obligation under section 159 (7) of the Act to pay an amount to
the government;



tax remitted
=

the amount of tax referred to in section 159 (2) (b) of the Act
remitted by the person in respect of the transaction;



total amount payable
=

the full amount of the consideration in respect of the
transaction including all applicable taxes, but not including
interest charges.




[am. B.C. Reg. 102/2015, App. 3, s. 2.]



Part 7 — Refunds and Credits for

Multijurisdictional Vehicles





Credit if vehicle ceases to be multijurisdictional




135

(1)


In this section:



"applicable period"

, in respect of a vehicle referred to in section 72 (5) or 72.1 (5) of
the Act, means the last vehicle licence period during which the
vehicle was licensed under a prorating agreement;



"prorate period amount"

means the amount calculated under subsection (4) of this section for a
vehicle;



"purchase price"

has the same meaning as for the purposes of section 72 or 72.1 of the
Act, as applicable;



"remaining balance amount"

means the amount calculated under subsection (3) of this section for a
vehicle.




(2)

The amount of the credit under section 72 (5) or 72.1 (5) of the Act
for a vehicle,




(a)

if the vehicle ceases to be licensed under a licence to which a
prorating agreement applies before the end of the vehicle licence
period, is the sum of the remaining balance amount and the prorate
period amount for the vehicle, and




(b)

in any other case, is the prorate period amount for the vehicle.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2) of this section, the remaining
balance amount for a vehicle must be calculated as follows:




remaining balance amount = tax paid ×




months remaining

total months











where


tax paid
=

the tax paid under one or both of sections 69
[tax if multijurisdictional vehicle licensed]
and 71
[adjustment of tax under section 69]
of the Act in respect of the vehicle for the applicable period;



months remaining
=

the number of whole months left in the applicable period at the
time that the vehicle ceases to be licensed under the licence to
which the prorating agreement applies;



total months
=

the number of whole and partial months in the applicable period.







(4)

For the purposes of subsection (2) of this section, the prorate period
amount for a vehicle must be calculated as follows:




prorate period amount =

purchase price × total months

× average travel ratio × 7%








where


purchase price
=

the purchase price of the vehicle;



total months
=

the number of whole months, up to a maximum of 60, in which the
vehicle was licensed under the licence to which the prorating
agreement applies, divided by 60;



average travel ratio
=

the average travel ratio during the total period the vehicle was
licensed under the licence to which the prorating agreement
applies.









Refund or credit of tax if fleet licensing changed




136

(1)


In this section:



"applicable period"

, in respect of a vehicle referred to in section 74 (1) of the Act,
means the last vehicle licence period under the previous licence
referred to in section 74 (1) (b) or (1.2) (b) of the Act;



"different fleet"

, in respect of a vehicle referred to in section 74 (1) of the Act,
means the different fleet referred to in section 74 (1) or (1.1) (c)
of the Act.




(2)

The amount of the credit under section 74 (2) of the Act or the amount
of the refund under section 74 (3) of the Act for a vehicle must be
calculated in accordance with the following formula:




amount of credit or refund = tax paid ×




months remaining

total months











where


tax paid
=

the tax paid under one or both of sections 69
[tax if multijurisdictional vehicle licensed]
and 71
[adjustment of tax under section 69]
of the Act in respect of the vehicle for the applicable period;



months remaining
=

the number of whole months remaining in the applicable period at
the time the vehicle is licensed as part of the different fleet;



total months
=

the number of whole and partial months in the applicable period.









Refund if vehicle ceases to be multijurisdictional




137

(1)


In this section,
"applicable period"
means the last vehicle licence period during which a vehicle referred
to in section 74.1 (1) of the Act was licensed under a prorating
agreement.




(2)

The amount of the refund under section 74.1 (1) of the Act for a
vehicle must be calculated as follows:




amount of refund = tax paid ×




months remaining

total months











where


tax paid
=

the tax paid under one or both of sections 69
[tax if multijurisdictional vehicle licensed]
and 71
[adjustment of tax under section 69]
of the Act in respect of the vehicle for the applicable period;



months remaining
=

the number of whole months left in the applicable period at the
time that the vehicle ceases to be licensed under the licence to
which the prorating agreement applies;



total months
=

the number of whole and partial months in the applicable period.









Refund at end of vehicle licence period




137.1



The amount of the refund under section 74.2 (1) of the Act in respect
of a vehicle for a vehicle licence period is the amount calculated in
accordance with the following formula:




amount of refund = tax paid ×




months remaining

total months











where


tax paid
=

the tax paid under one or both of sections 69
[tax if multijurisdictional vehicle licensed]
and 71
[adjustment of tax under section 69]
of the Act in respect of the vehicle for the vehicle licence
period;



months remaining
=

the number of whole months left in the vehicle licence period at
the time that the vehicle ceased to be licensed under the
licence to which the prorating agreement applies;



total months
=

the number of whole and partial months in the vehicle licence
period.




[en. B.C. Reg. 117/2014, Sch. 4, s. 9.]





Credit if tax previously paid




138

(1)


The amount of the credit under section 75 (1) or (1.1) or 75.1 (1) or
(2) of the Act for a vehicle must be calculated in accordance with the
following formula:





amount of credit = taxable value × credit factor × travel ratio
× travel months








where


taxable value
=

the vehicle taxable value;



credit factor
=

the tax credit factor, for the calendar year in respect of which
the credit is claimed,






(a)

established under subsection (2) of this section, if the vehicle
is not a bus, or






(b)

established under subsection (3) of this section, if the vehicle
is a bus;



travel ratio
=

the travel ratio for the vehicle;



travel months
=

the number of whole and partial months in the vehicle licence
period at the time that the vehicle is licensed, divided by 12.







(2)

The tax credit factor referred to in subsection (1) of this section
for a calendar year in respect of which a credit is claimed for a
vehicle other than a bus is the tax credit factor shown opposite the
applicable calendar year as follows:






Calendar Year




Tax Credit Factor






acquisition year
2.944%



1st calendar year after the acquisition year

2.296%



2nd calendar year after the acquisition year

1.827%



3rd calendar year after the acquisition year

1.488%



4th calendar year after the acquisition year

1.247%






(3)

The tax credit factor referred to in subsection (1) of this section
for a calendar year in respect of which a credit is claimed for a bus
is the tax credit factor shown opposite the applicable calendar year
as follows:






Calendar Year




Tax Credit Factor






acquisition year
2.498%



1st calendar year after the acquisition year

1.836%



2nd calendar year after the acquisition year

1.349%



3rd calendar year after the acquisition year

0.990%



4th calendar year after the acquisition year

0.730%








Refunds from Insurance Corporation of British Columbia




138.1

(1)


If a person has paid to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
an amount as tax under section 69 of the Act that, as a result of a
clerical error, is in excess of the amount of tax payable under that
section, the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may refund to
the person the amount of the excess.




(2)

If the director is satisfied that a person has paid to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia an amount as tax under section 69 of
the Act that is in excess of the amount of tax payable under that
section, the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, on receiving
notice from the director, may refund to the person the amount of the
excess.




(3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may refund to a person
the amount of tax paid under section 69 of the Act by the person in
respect of a vehicle licence period if the person




(a)

licensed a vehicle in British Columbia under a licence to which a
prorating agreement applies for the vehicle licence period,




(b)

paid tax under section 69 of the Act to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia in respect of the licence referred to in paragraph
(a), and




(c)

cancels the licence referred to in paragraph (a) before the licence
comes into effect.

[en. B.C. Reg. 117/2014, Sch. 6.]





Special refunds by Insurance Corporation of British Columbia




138.2

(1)


Subject to subsection (3), the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia may refund to a person an amount of tax paid under
section 69 of the Act in respect of a vehicle licence period if
the vehicle ceases to be licensed, under a licence to which a
prorating agreement applies, on a date that is




(a)

within the vehicle licence period, and




(b)

after March 10, 2020 but before October 1, 2020.




(2)

If the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia does not exercise its
discretion under subsection (1) to pay a refund to a person, the
director may pay the refund if the director is satisfied that




(a)

the person paid to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia tax
under section 69 of the Act in respect of a vehicle licence period,
and




(b)

the requirement in respect of the vehicle, set out in
subsection (1), is met.




(3)

A person may not be paid a refund under subsection (1) if the director
pays a refund under subsection (2).




(4)

The amount of the refund under subsection (1) or (2) is the amount
calculated in accordance with the formula set out in section 137.1 as
if the refund were payable under section 74.2 of the Act.




(5)

A person to whom a refund is paid under subsection (1) or (2) must
repay to the government an amount equal to the refund if




(a)

the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia has provided a credit in
respect of the same vehicle for the same vehicle licence period under
section 74 (2) or 76 (2) of the Act, or




(b)

the director has paid a refund, in respect of the same vehicle for the
same vehicle licence period, under section 74 (3), 74.1,
74.2 or 76 (3) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 98/2020.]





Refund or credit for trade-in vehicles




139


The amount of the credit under section 76 (2) of the Act or the amount
of the refund under section 76 (3) of the Act for a trade-in vehicle
must be calculated in accordance with the following formula:




amount of credit or refund =




tax paid

12




× (months remaining)







where


tax paid
=

the tax paid under Division 7 of Part 3 of the Act on the
trade-in vehicle at the beginning of the vehicle licence period
in which the vehicle is traded in against the purchase of the
new vehicle;



months remaining
=

the number of whole months remaining in the trade-in vehicle's
vehicle licence period at the time the vehicle is traded in
against the purchase of the new vehicle.







Part 8 — Refunds and Credits for Exclusive Products





Refund or credit if subsequent sale to exempt purchaser




140


If a person




(a)

is an independent sales contractor of a direct seller,




(b)

has obtained an exclusive product from the direct seller or another
independent sales contractor of the direct seller,




(c)

has paid tax under section 99

[tax on acquisition of exclusive product by independent sales
contractor]

of the Act in relation to the exclusive product, and




(d)

has sold the exclusive product to a purchaser who was not liable to
pay tax on that purchase,


the direct seller may, within 180 days of the date on which the person
paid the tax under section 99 of the Act, refund or credit to the
person the amount of tax paid.






Refund or credit if subsequent sale for less than suggested retail
price




141


If




(a)

a person




(i)

is an independent sales contractor of a direct seller,




(ii)

has obtained an exclusive product from the direct seller or another
independent sales contractor of the direct seller,




(iii)

has paid tax under section 99

[tax on acquisition of exclusive product by independent sales
contractor]

of the Act in relation to the exclusive product, and




(iv)

has sold the exclusive product to a purchaser, and




(b)

the purchase price paid by the purchaser is less than the direct
seller's suggested retail price,


the direct seller may, within 180 days of the date on which the person
paid the tax under section 99 of the Act, refund or credit to the
person an amount equal to the amount, if any, by which the amount of
tax paid by the person under section 99 of the Act exceeds the amount
of tax levied by the person on the purchase price of the exclusive
product under section 180
[collection of tax by independent sales contractor]
of the Act.






Refund or credit if exclusive product used by independent sales
contractor or provided to another person at no cost




142

(1)


This section applies to a person who




(a)

is an independent sales contractor of a direct seller,




(b)

has obtained an exclusive product from the direct seller or another
independent sales contractor of the direct seller,




(c)

has paid tax under section 99

[tax on acquisition of exclusive product by independent sales
contractor]

of the Act in relation to the exclusive product, and




(d)

uses or consumes the exclusive product or provides the exclusive
product to another person at no cost for use or consumption by that
other person.




(2)

If this section applies to a person under subsection (1), the direct
seller may, within 180 days of the date on which the person paid the
tax under section 99 of the Act, refund or credit to the person an
amount equal to the amount by which the amount of tax paid by the
person under section 99 of the Act exceeds the amount of tax that
would have been payable by the person in relation to the exclusive
product under, as applicable,




(a)

section 37
[tax on purchase]
of the Act if section 37 (2) (c.1) of the Act had not applied, or




(b)

Division 4
[Tangible Personal Property Brought into British Columbia]
of Part 3 of the Act if section 48 (a)
[application of Division 4]
of that Division had not applied.






Refund or credit if exclusive product returned to direct seller




143

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), if




(a)

a person




(i)

is an independent sales contractor of a direct seller,




(ii)

has obtained an exclusive product from the direct seller or another
independent sales contractor of the direct seller,




(iii)

has paid tax under section 99

[tax on acquisition of exclusive product by independent sales
contractor]

of the Act in relation to the exclusive product, and




(iv)

returns the exclusive product to the direct seller, and




(b)

the direct seller refunds or credits to the person all or a portion of
the consideration paid by the person for the purchase of the exclusive
product,


the direct seller may, at the time the refund or credit of the
consideration is paid or allowed, refund or credit to the person the
amount of tax paid by the person that is attributable to the amount of
the refund or credit of the consideration.




(2)

A direct seller may pay or allow a refund or credit to a person under
subsection (1) only if the refund or credit is paid or allowed within
180 days of the date on which the person paid the tax under section 99
of the Act.






Refund by director if direct seller does not provide refund or credit




144

(1)


In this section,
"relevant provision"
means any of sections 140 to 143.




(2)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

all of the requirements in a relevant provision for the payment of a
refund or allowance of a credit to a person have been met, and




(b)

the direct seller




(i)

did not pay or allow the refund or credit, or




(ii)

paid or allowed less than the full amount of the refund or credit,


the director must refund to the person an amount equal to the amount
of the refund or credit the direct seller did not pay or allow.




(3)

The director may require that a person request a direct seller to pay
a refund or allow a credit under a relevant provision in relation to
an exclusive product before the person may apply to the director for a
refund under this section in respect of that exclusive product.






Refund by director for bad debts




145

(1)


In this section,
"transaction"
means a transaction referred to in subsection (2) (d) of this section.




(2)

This section applies to a person in respect of an exclusive product if




(a)

the person is an independent sales contractor of a direct seller,




(b)

the person has obtained the exclusive product from the direct seller
or another independent sales contractor of the direct seller,




(c)

the person has paid tax under section 99

[tax on acquisition of exclusive product by independent sales
contractor]

of the Act in relation to the exclusive product,




(d)

the person sells the exclusive product to a purchaser,




(e)

the person, in accordance with the Act, has levied the tax required to
be levied under section 180 (1)
[collection of tax by independent sales contractor]
of the Act for the transaction,




(f)

the purchaser does not pay to the person the full amount of the
consideration in respect of the transaction, and




(g)

the person within 4 years of the date on which the tax referred to in
paragraph (c) was paid, writes off as unrealizable or uncollectable
the amount owing by the purchaser.




(3)

If the director is satisfied that this section applies to a person in
respect of an exclusive product, the director must refund to the
person the portion, determined in accordance with subsection (4) of
this section, of the amount of the tax paid by the person under
section 99 of the Act in relation to the exclusive product.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (3) of this section, the portion of the
amount of the tax paid by a person under section 99 of the Act in
relation to an exclusive product must be determined in accordance with
the following formula:




portion to be refunded = tax levied ×




amount unpaid

total amount payable











where


tax levied
=

the amount of tax levied by the person under section 180 (1) of
the Act in relation to the exclusive product;



amount unpaid
=

the amount written off as unrealizable or uncollectable in
respect of the transaction, but not including interest charges;



total amount payable
=

the full amount of the consideration in respect of the
transaction including all applicable taxes, but not including
interest charges.







(5)

If a person who obtained a refund under subsection (3) of this section
recovers some or all of the amount referred to in subsection (2) (g)
of this section, the person must pay to the government an amount,
determined in accordance with subsection (6) of this section, on or
before the last day of the month following the month in which the
recovery was made.




(6)

For the purposes of subsection (5) of this section, the amount a
person must pay to the government must be determined in accordance
with the following formula:




amount to be paid = tax levied ×




amount recovered

total amount payable











where


tax levied
=

the amount of tax levied by the person under section 180 (1) of
the Act in relation to the exclusive product;



amount recovered
=

the amount recovered by the person that gives rise to the
obligation under subsection (5) of this section to pay an amount
to the government;



total amount payable
=

the full amount of the consideration in respect of the
transaction including all applicable taxes, but not including
interest charges.









Refund by director if exclusive product not sold




146


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person




(i)

is an independent sales contractor of a direct seller,




(ii)

has obtained an exclusive product from the direct seller or another
independent sales contractor of the direct seller,




(iii)

has paid tax under section 99

[tax on acquisition of exclusive product by independent sales
contractor]

of the Act in relation to the exclusive product,




(iv)

has not used or consumed and will not use or consume the exclusive
product,




(v)

has not provided and will not provide the exclusive product to another
person at no cost for use or consumption by that other person, and




(vi)

has not returned and will not return the exclusive product to the
direct seller, and




(b)

the exclusive product was not sold and will not be sold to a
purchaser,


the director must refund to the person the amount of the tax paid.






No more than one refund or credit




147

(1)


An independent sales contractor of a direct seller who has received or
been allowed a refund or credit in respect of tax paid under section
99

[tax on acquisition of exclusive product by independent sales
contractor]

of the Act in relation to an exclusive product is not entitled to and
must not request a refund from the director in respect of the same tax
paid under section 99 of the Act in relation to the exclusive product.




(2)

An independent sales contractor of a direct seller who has received a
refund from the director in respect of tax paid under section 99 of
the Act in relation to an exclusive product is not entitled to and
must not request a refund or credit from the direct seller in respect
of the same tax paid under section 99 of the Act in relation to the
exclusive product.




Part 9 — Related Party Asset Transfers



Division 1 — Definitions and Interpretation





Definitions and interpretation




148

(1)


In this Part,
"related corporation"
means a corporation that is related to another corporation within the
meaning of subsection (2).




(2)

For the purposes of this Part, a corporation is related to another
corporation if




(a)

one of them is a wholly owned subsidiary of the other, or




(b)

both of them are wholly owned subsidiaries of the same corporation.




(3)

For the purposes of this subsection and subsection (2), a corporation
is a wholly owned subsidiary of another corporation if at least 95% of
the outstanding shares of each class of the share capital of the first
corporation are beneficially owned by one or both of the following:




(a)

that other corporation;




(b)

a wholly owned subsidiary, or wholly owned subsidiaries, of that other
corporation.




(4)

Subject to subsection (5), for the purposes of




(a)

section 151

[tangible personal property transferred to new corporation — wholly
owned and controlled]

,




(b)

section 152

[tangible personal property transferred to new corporation — not
wholly owned and controlled]

,




(c)

section 154

[software transferred to new corporation — wholly owned and
controlled]

, and




(d)

section 155

[software transferred to new corporation — not wholly owned and
controlled]

,


a person wholly owns and controls a corporation if




(e)

the person beneficially owns shares in the corporation, and




(f)

at least 95% of the outstanding shares of each class of the share
capital of the corporation are beneficially owned by that person or by
that person and that person's spouse.




(5)

For the purposes of sections 151, 152, 154 and 155, a person referred
to in subsection (4) of this section continues to wholly own and
control a corporation despite transferring,




(a)

without consideration, shares in the corporation to a trustee of a
trust whose only beneficiaries are one or more of the following:




(i)

the person;




(ii)

the person's spouse;




(iii)

the person's children, or




(b)

with or without consideration, shares in the corporation to a trustee
of a trust whose only beneficiaries are the person's spouse or the
person and the person's spouse.




Division 2 — Tangible Personal Property Transferred between Related
Parties





Tangible personal property transferred between related corporations




149

(1)


In this section:



"previous owner"

, in relation to tangible personal property, means the related
corporation referred to in subsection (2) (a), (b) or (c), as
applicable;



"transfer date"

means the following:




(a)

in respect of tangible personal property referred to in subsection (2)
(a), the date on which the tangible personal property is purchased by
the corporation referred to in that subsection;




(b)

in respect of tangible personal property referred to in subsection (2)
(b), the date on which the tangible personal property was acquired by
the corporation referred to in that subsection;




(c)

in respect of tangible personal property referred to in subsection (2)
(c), the date on which the tangible personal property is received as a
gift by the corporation referred to in that subsection.




(2)

Subject to subsections (3), (12) and (14) to (16),




(a)

a corporation is exempt from tax imposed under any of the following
provisions of the Act in respect of tangible personal property if the
corporation purchases the tangible personal property from a related
corporation:




(i)

Division 2
[Purchases of Tangible Personal Property]
of Part 3;




(ii)

section 60

[tax if conveyance purchased in British Columbia for
interjurisdictional use]

;




(iii)

section 66
[adjustment of tax in respect of conveyance]
;




(iv)

section 101
[tax on reusable containers]
,




(b)

a corporation is exempt from tax imposed under any of the following
provisions of the Act in respect of tangible personal property if the
corporation acquired the tangible personal property from a related
corporation:




(i)

Division 4
[Tangible Personal Property Brought into British Columbia]
of Part 3;




(ii)

Division 5

[Property Brought into British Columbia from Outside Canada]

of Part 3;




(iii)

section 63

[tax if conveyance brought into and used in British Columbia]

;




(iv)

section 64
[tax if change in use of conveyance acquired for resale]
;




(v)

section 66
[adjustment of tax in respect of conveyance]
, and




(c)

a corporation is exempt from tax imposed under section 100

[tax on gift of vehicle, boat or aircraft given in British Columbia]

of the Act in respect of a vehicle, boat or aircraft if the
corporation receives the vehicle, boat or aircraft as a gift from a
related corporation.




(3)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a), (b) and (c) do not apply to a
corporation in respect of tangible personal property unless one or
more of the following requirements are met:




(a)

subject to subsections (4) to (7), a related corporation of either the
corporation or the previous owner of the tangible personal property




(i)

paid tax under the Act, the

Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act

or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the tangible personal property and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under those Acts, a refund of that tax, or




(ii)

paid tax, in respect of the tangible personal property, under section
165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

, in respect of British Columbia as a participating province under
Part IX of that Act, and has not obtained and is not entitled to
obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a credit or rebate
for that tax;




(b)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property, before July 1,
1948, acquired in British Columbia, brought or sent into British
Columbia or received delivery of in British Columbia the tangible
personal property;




(c)

subject to subsection (8),




(i)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property, on or after July
1, 1948 but before July 1, 2010, acquired in British Columbia, brought
or sent into British Columbia or received delivery of in British
Columbia the tangible personal property, and




(ii)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property was not subject
to, or was exempt from, tax under the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the acquiring in British Columbia, bringing or sending
into British Columbia or receiving of delivery in British Columbia of
the tangible personal property;




(d)

subject to subsection (9),




(i)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property, on or after July
1, 2010 but before April 1, 2013, acquired in British Columbia,
brought or sent into British Columbia or received delivery of in
British Columbia the tangible personal property, and




(ii)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property would not have
been subject to, or would have been exempt from, tax under the Act in
respect of the acquiring in British Columbia, bringing or sending into
British Columbia or receiving of delivery in British Columbia of the
tangible personal property, if the Act and the regulations made under
it, as they read on April 1, 2013, had been in force during the period
referred to in subparagraph (i);




(e)

subject to subsection (10),




(i)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property, on or after
April 1, 2013, acquired in British Columbia, brought or sent into
British Columbia or received delivery of in British Columbia the
tangible personal property, and




(ii)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property was not subject
to, or was exempt from, tax under the Act in respect of the acquiring
in British Columbia, bringing or sending into British Columbia or
receiving of delivery in British Columbia of the tangible personal
property;




(f)

subject to subsection (11),




(i)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property, before April 1,
2013, acquired the tangible personal property outside British
Columbia, and




(ii)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property would have been
exempt under this Division from tax imposed under the Act in respect
of the tangible personal property if




(A)

the Act and the regulations made under it, as they read on April 1,
2013, had been in force on the date on which the tangible personal
property was acquired, and




(B)

the previous owner had purchased the tangible personal property at a
sale in British Columbia;




(g)

subject to subsection (11),




(i)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property, on or after
April 1, 2013, acquired the tangible personal property outside British
Columbia, and




(ii)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property would have been
exempt under this Division from tax imposed under the Act in respect
of the tangible personal property if the previous owner had, on the
date on which the tangible personal property was acquired, purchased
the tangible personal property at a sale in British Columbia.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (3) (a) (i),




(a)

tax under the Act does not include tax under the following provisions
of the Act:




(i)

Division 3
[Leases of Tangible Personal Property]
of Part 3;




(ii)

section 62
[tax if leased conveyance used in British Columbia]
;




(iii)

Division 7
[Multijurisdictional Vehicles]
of Part 3;




(iv)

Division 11
[Energy Products]
of Part 3;




(v)

section 102

[tax on leased property occasionally supplied with operator]

, and




(b)

tax under the

Social Service Tax Act

does not include tax under the following provisions of that Act:




(i)

Division 2
[Tax in relation to Leases]
of Part 2;




(ii)

Division 3
[Tax in relation to Multijurisdictional Vehicles]
of Part 2;




(iii)

Division 9
[Environmental Levies]
of Part 2.




(5)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (a) is not met if the
related corporation referred to in that subsection




(a)

paid tax under the Act or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of a portion of the consideration for the tangible personal
property,




(b)

paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of
Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

, in respect of British Columbia as a participating province under
Part IX of that Act, in respect of a portion of the consideration for
the tangible personal property, and




(c)

obtained or is entitled to obtain, under Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

, a refund, credit or rebate in respect of the tax referred to in
paragraph (b) of this subsection.




(6)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (a) (i) is not met if




(a)

the related corporation referred to in subsection (3) (a) paid tax in
respect of the tangible personal property only under Division 6
[Conveyances Used Interjurisdictionally]
of Part 3 of the Act, and




(b)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property did not, at any
time, use the tangible personal property in British Columbia.




(7)

If the related corporation referred to in subsection (3) (a) paid tax
in respect of the tangible personal property only under one or both of




(a)

section 51

[tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for
temporary use]

of the Act, and




(b)

section 12
[calculation of tax if use in British Columbia temporary]
of the

Social Service Tax Act

,


the requirement set out in subsection (3) (a) (i) is met only if, by
operation of section 51 (6) of the Act, no tax would have been payable
under section 51 of the Act by that related corporation in respect of
that tangible personal property, if section 51 had applied to that
related corporation in respect of that tangible personal property
immediately before the transfer date.




(8)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (c) is not met if the
previous owner of the tangible personal property was not subject to,
or was exempt from, tax under the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the tangible personal property because




(a)

the previous owner purchased in British Columbia, brought or sent into
British Columbia or received delivery of in British Columbia the
tangible personal property for resale or lease,




(b)

the tangible personal property was used or was to be used for a
particular purpose, or




(c)

the tangible personal property was to be delivered or transported
outside British Columbia, or was, in whole or in part, for use outside
British Columbia.




(9)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (d) is not met if the
previous owner of the tangible personal property would not have been
subject to, or would have been exempt from, tax under the Act in
respect of the tangible personal property because




(a)

the previous owner purchased in British Columbia, brought or sent into
British Columbia or received delivery of in British Columbia the
tangible personal property for resale or lease,




(b)

the tangible personal property was to be used for a particular
purpose, or




(c)

the tangible personal property was to be delivered or transported
outside British Columbia, or was, in whole or in part, for use outside
British Columbia.




(10)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (e) is not met if the
previous owner of the tangible personal property was not subject to,
or was exempt from, tax under the Act in respect of the tangible
personal property because




(a)

the previous owner purchased in British Columbia, brought or sent into
British Columbia or received delivery of in British Columbia the
tangible personal property for resale or lease,




(b)

the tangible personal property was to be used for a particular
purpose, or




(c)

the tangible personal property was to be delivered or transported
outside British Columbia, or was, in whole or in part, for use outside
British Columbia.




(11)

The requirements set out in subsection (3) (f) and (g) are not met if
the previous owner of the tangible personal property




(a)

did not, at any time, use the tangible personal property in British
Columbia, and




(b)

acquired the tangible personal property from a person who used the
tangible personal property in British Columbia as a taxable
conveyance, as defined in section 59
[definitions — conveyances used interjurisdictionally]
of the Act.




(12)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a), (b) and (c) do not apply to a
corporation in respect of tangible personal property unless




(a)

the corporation and the previous owner of the tangible personal
property remain related corporations for a period of at least 8 months
after the transfer date, or




(b)

all of the following requirements are met:




(i)

the corporation and the previous owner of the tangible personal
property were related corporations for a period of at least 8 months
before the transfer date;




(ii)

on or after the transfer date, the previous owner is dissolved or
wound up under the

Bank Act

(Canada), the

Business Corporations Act

, the

Canada Business Corporations Act

or the

Winding-up and Restructuring Act

(Canada);




(iii)

the corporation and the previous owner remain related corporations
until such time as the previous owner is dissolved or wound up.




(13)

Subsections (14) and (15) apply to a corporation referred to in
subsection (2) (a), (b) or (c) in respect of tangible personal
property referred to in that subsection if




(a)

the related corporation referred to in subsection (3) (a) of this
section paid tax in respect of the tangible personal property only
under section 60, 63, 64 or 66 of the Act, or




(b)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property was exempt under
this Division from all or a portion of tax imposed under section 60,
63 or 64 of the Act in respect of the tangible personal property.




(14)

For the purposes of the exemptions under subsection (2) (a), (b) and
(c), a corporation to whom this subsection applies is exempt from tax
imposed under Division 2, 4 or 5 or section 60, 63, 64 or 100 of Part
3 of the Act, as applicable, in respect of the tangible personal
property in an amount that is equal to the lesser of




(a)

the sum of the following:




(i)

the amount of tax the previous owner paid in respect of the tangible
personal property under sections 60, 63, 64 and 66 of the Act and for
which the previous owner has not obtained and is not entitled to
obtain a refund under the Act;




(ii)

if the previous owner was exempt under this Division from all or a
portion of tax imposed under section 60, 63 or 64 of the Act in
respect of the tangible personal property, the amount determined under
this paragraph or section 151 (12) (a)

[tangible personal property transferred to new corporation — wholly
owned and controlled]

of this regulation, as applicable, for the purpose of the previous
owner's exemption from tax, and




(b)

the amount of tax that, but for subsection (2) (a), (b) or (c) of this
section, would be payable by the corporation under Division 2, 4 or 5
or section 60, 63, 64 or 100 of Part 3 of the Act, as applicable, in
respect of the tangible personal property.




(15)

Subject to subsection (16), for the purposes of the exemptions under
subsection (2) (a) and (b), a corporation to whom this subsection
applies is exempt from tax imposed under section 66 of the Act in
respect of the tangible personal property in an amount that is equal
to the lesser of




(a)

the difference between the amount determined under subsection (14) (a)
of this section and the amount determined under subsection (14) (b),
and




(b)

the amount of tax that, but for subsection (2) (a) or (b) of this
section, would be payable by the corporation under section 66 of the
Act in respect of the tangible personal property.




(16)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b) of this section from
tax imposed under section 66 of the Act do not apply to a corporation
referred to in subsection (15) of this section in respect of tangible
personal property unless the amount determined under subsection (14)
(a) exceeds the amount determined under subsection (14) (b).






Tangible personal property leased from related corporation




150

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (9), a corporation is exempt from tax
imposed under Division 3
[Leases of Tangible Personal Property]
or section 62
[tax if leased conveyance used in British Columbia]
of Part 3 of the Act, as applicable, in respect of tangible personal
property if the corporation, referred to in this section as the
"lessee", leases the tangible personal property from a related
corporation, referred to in this section as the "lessor".




(2)

The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to a corporation in
respect of tangible personal property unless one or more of the
following requirements are met:




(a)

subject to subsections (3) to (5), a related corporation of either the
lessee or the lessor




(i)

paid tax under the Act, the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the tangible personal property and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under those Acts, a refund of that tax, or




(ii)

paid tax, in respect of the tangible personal property, under section
165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

, in respect of British Columbia as a participating province under
Part IX of that Act, and has not obtained and is not entitled to
obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a credit or rebate
for that tax;




(b)

the lessor, before July 1, 1948, acquired in British Columbia, brought
or sent into British Columbia or received delivery of in British
Columbia the tangible personal property;




(c)

subject to subsection (6),




(i)

the lessor, on or after July 1, 1948 but before July 1, 2010, acquired
in British Columbia, brought or sent into British Columbia or received
delivery of in British Columbia the tangible personal property, and




(ii)

the lessor was not subject to, or was exempt from, tax under the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the acquiring in British Columbia, bringing or sending
into British Columbia or receiving of delivery in British Columbia of
the tangible personal property;




(d)

subject to subsection (7),




(i)

the lessor, on or after July 1, 2010 but before April 1, 2013,
acquired in British Columbia, brought or sent into British Columbia or
received delivery of in British Columbia the tangible personal
property, and




(ii)

the lessor would not have been subject to, or would have been exempt
from, tax under the Act in respect of the tangible personal property,
if the Act and the regulations made under it, as they read on April 1,
2013, had been in force during the period referred to in subparagraph
(i);




(e)

subject to subsection (8),




(i)

the lessor, on or after April 1, 2013, acquired in British Columbia,
brought or sent into British Columbia or received delivery of in
British Columbia the tangible personal property, and




(ii)

the lessor was not subject to, or was exempt from, tax under the Act
in respect of the acquiring in British Columbia, bringing or sending
into British Columbia or receiving of delivery in British Columbia of
the tangible personal property.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2) (a) (i),




(a)

tax under the Act does not include tax under the following provisions
of the Act:




(i)

Division 3
[Leases of Tangible Personal Property]
of Part 3;




(ii)

Division 6
[Conveyances Used Interjurisdictionally]
of Part 3;




(iii)

Division 7
[Multijurisdictional Vehicles]
of Part 3;




(iv)

Division 11
[Energy Products]
of Part 3;




(v)

section 102

[tax on leased property occasionally supplied with operator]

, and




(b)

tax under the

Social Service Tax Act

does not include tax under the following provisions of that Act:




(i)

Division 2
[Tax in relation to Leases]
of Part 2;




(ii)

Division 3
[Tax in relation to Multijurisdictional Vehicles]
of Part 2;




(iii)

Division 9
[Environmental Levies]
of Part 2.




(4)

The requirement set out in subsection (2) (a) is not met if the
related corporation referred to in that subsection




(a)

paid tax under the Act or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of a portion of the consideration for the tangible personal
property,




(b)

paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of
Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

, in respect of British Columbia as a participating province under
Part IX of that Act, in respect of a portion of the consideration for
the tangible personal property, and




(c)

obtained or is entitled to obtain, under Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

, a refund, credit or rebate in respect of the tax referred to in
paragraph (b) of this subsection.




(5)

If the related corporation referred to in subsection (2) (a) paid tax
in respect of the tangible personal property only under one or both of




(a)

section 51

[tax if tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for
temporary use]

of the Act, and




(b)

section 12
[calculation of tax if use in British Columbia temporary]
of the

Social Service Tax Act

,


the requirement set out in subsection (2) (a) (i) of this section is
met only if, by operation of section 51 (6) of the Act, no tax would
have been payable under section 51 of the Act by that related
corporation in respect of that tangible personal property, if section
51 had applied to that related corporation in respect of that tangible
personal property immediately before the date on which that tangible
personal property is leased by the lessee.




(6)

The requirement set out in subsection (2) (c) is not met if the lessor
was not subject to, or was exempt from, tax under the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the tangible personal property because




(a)

the lessor purchased in British Columbia, brought or sent into British
Columbia or received delivery of in British Columbia the tangible
personal property for resale or lease,




(b)

the tangible personal property was used or was to be used for a
particular purpose, or




(c)

the tangible personal property was to be delivered or transported
outside British Columbia, or was, in whole or in part, for use outside
British Columbia.




(7)

The requirement set out in subsection (2) (d) is not met if the lessor
of the tangible personal property would not have been subject to, or
would have been exempt from, tax under the Act in respect of the
tangible personal property because




(a)

the lessor purchased in British Columbia, brought or sent into British
Columbia or received delivery of in British Columbia the tangible
personal property for resale or lease,




(b)

the tangible personal property was to be used for a particular
purpose, or




(c)

the tangible personal property was to be delivered or transported
outside British Columbia, or was, in whole or in part, for use outside
British Columbia.




(8)

The requirement set out in subsection (2) (e) is not met if the lessor
of the tangible personal property was not subject to, or was exempt
from, tax under the Act in respect of the tangible personal property
because




(a)

the lessor purchased in British Columbia, brought or sent into British
Columbia or received delivery of in British Columbia the tangible
personal property for resale or lease,




(b)

the tangible personal property was to be used for a particular
purpose, or




(c)

the tangible personal property was to be delivered or transported
outside British Columbia, or was, in whole or in part, for use outside
British Columbia.




(9)

The exemptions under subsection (1) do not apply to a corporation in
respect of tangible personal property unless the lessee and the lessor
continue to be related corporations at the time that, but for the
exemption under subsection (1), tax would be payable under Division 3
[Leases of Tangible Personal Property]
or section 62
[tax if leased conveyance used in British Columbia]
of Part 3 of the Act, as applicable, in respect of the tangible
personal property.






Tangible personal property transferred to new corporation — wholly
owned and controlled




151

(1)


In this section:



"previous owner"

, in relation to tangible personal property, means the person referred
to in subsection (2) (a) or (b), as applicable, from whom the
corporation referred to in that subsection purchases or acquired, as
applicable, the tangible personal property;



"transfer date"

means the following:




(a)

in respect of tangible personal property referred to in subsection (2)
(a), the date on which the tangible personal property is purchased by
the corporation referred to in that subsection;




(b)

in respect of tangible personal property referred to in subsection (2)
(b), the date on which the tangible personal property was acquired by
the corporation referred to in that subsection.




(2)

Subject to subsections (3), (10) and (12) to (14),




(a)

a corporation is exempt from tax imposed under any of the following
provisions of the Act in respect of tangible personal property if the
corporation, at any time on or before the date on which the
corporation starts to carry on business, purchases the tangible
personal property from a person that wholly owns and controls it:




(i)

Division 2
[Purchases of Tangible Personal Property]
of Part 3;




(ii)

section 60

[tax if conveyance purchased in British Columbia for
interjurisdictional use]

;




(iii)

section 66
[adjustment of tax in respect of conveyance]
;




(iv)

section 101
[tax on reusable containers]
, and




(b)

a corporation is exempt from tax imposed under any of the following
provisions of the Act in respect of tangible personal property if the
corporation, at any time on or before the date on which the
corporation started to carry on business, acquired the tangible
personal property from a person that wholly owned and controlled it:




(i)

Division 4
[Tangible Personal Property Brought into British Columbia]
of Part 3 of the Act;




(ii)

Division 5

[Property Brought into British Columbia from Outside Canada]

of Part 3;




(iii)

section 63

[tax if conveyance brought into and used in British Columbia]

;




(iv)

section 64
[tax if change in use of conveyance acquired for resale]
;




(v)

section 66
[adjustment of tax in respect of conveyance]
.




(3)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b) do not apply to a
corporation in respect of tangible personal property unless one or
more of the following requirements are met:




(a)

subject to subsections (4) to (6), the previous owner of the tangible
personal property




(i)

paid tax under the Act, the
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the tangible personal property and has not obtained and
is not entitled to obtain, under those Acts, a refund of that tax, or




(ii)

paid tax, in respect of the tangible personal property, under section
165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

, in respect of British Columbia as a participating province under
Part IX of that Act, and has not obtained and is not entitled to
obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a credit or rebate
for that tax;




(b)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property, before July 1,
1948, acquired in British Columbia, brought or sent into British
Columbia or received delivery of in British Columbia the tangible
personal property;




(c)

subject to subsection (7),




(i)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property, on or after July
1, 1948 but before July 1, 2010, acquired in British Columbia, brought
or sent into British Columbia or received delivery of in British
Columbia the tangible personal property, and




(ii)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property was not subject
to, or was exempt from, tax under the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the acquiring in British Columbia, bringing or sending
into British Columbia or receiving of delivery in British Columbia of
the tangible personal property;




(d)

subject to subsection (8),




(i)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property, on or after July
1, 2010 but before April 1, 2013, acquired in British Columbia,
brought or sent into British Columbia or received delivery of in
British Columbia the tangible personal property, and




(ii)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property would not have
been subject to, or would have been exempt from, tax under the Act in
respect of the acquiring in British Columbia, bringing or sending into
British Columbia or receiving of delivery in British Columbia of the
tangible personal property, if the Act and the regulations made under
it, as they read on April 1, 2013, had been in force during the period
referred to in subparagraph (i);




(e)

subject to subsection (9),




(i)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property, on or after
April 1, 2013, acquired in British Columbia, brought or sent into
British Columbia or received delivery of in British Columbia the
tangible personal property, and




(ii)

the previous owner of the tangible personal property was not subject
to, or was exempt from, tax under the Act in respect of the acquiring
in British Columbia, bringing or sending into British Columbia or
receiving of delivery in British Columbia of the tangible personal
property.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (3) (a) (i),




(a)

tax under the Act does not include tax under the following provisions
of the Act:




(i)

Division 3
[Leases of Tangible Personal Property]
of Part 3;




(ii)

section 62
[tax if leased conveyance used in British Columbia]
;




(iii)

Division 7
[Multijurisdictional Vehicles]
of Part 3;




(iv)

Division 11
[Energy Products]
of Part 3;




(v)

section 102

[tax on leased property occasionally supplied with operator]

, and




(b)

tax under the

Social Service Tax Act

does not include tax under the following provisions of that Act:




(i)

Division 2
[Tax in relation to Leases]
of Part 2;




(ii)

Division 3
[Tax in relation to Multijurisdictional Vehicles]
of Part 2;




(iii)

Division 9
[Environmental Levies]
of Part 2.




(5)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (a) is not met if the
previous owner of the tangible personal property




(a)

paid tax under the Act or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of a portion of the consideration for the tangible personal
property,




(b)

paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of
Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

, in respect of British Columbia as a participating province under
Part IX of that Act, in respect of a portion of the consideration for
the tangible personal property, and




(c)

obtained or is entitled to obtain, under Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

, a refund, credit or rebate in respect of the tax referred to in
paragraph (b) of this subsection.




(6)

If the previous owner of the tangible personal property paid tax in
respect of the tangible personal property only under one or both of




(a)

section 51

[tax if tangible personal property brought into British Columbia for
temporary use]

of the Act, and




(b)

section 12
[calculation of tax if use in British Columbia temporary]
of the

Social Service Tax Act

,


the requirement set out in subsection (3) (a) (i) of this section is
met only if, by operation of section 51 (6) of the Act, no tax would
have been payable under section 51 of the Act by that previous owner
in respect of that tangible personal property, if section 51 had
applied to that previous owner in respect of that tangible personal
property immediately before the transfer date.




(7)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (c) is not met if the
previous owner of the tangible personal property was not subject to,
or was exempt from, tax under the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the tangible personal property because




(a)

the previous owner purchased in British Columbia, brought or sent into
British Columbia or received delivery of in British Columbia the
tangible personal property for resale or lease,




(b)

the tangible personal property was used or was to be used for a
particular purpose, or




(c)

the tangible personal property was to be delivered or transported
outside British Columbia, or was, in whole or in part, for use outside
British Columbia.




(8)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (d) is not met if the
previous owner of the tangible personal property would not have been
subject to, or would have been exempt from, tax under the Act in
respect of the tangible personal property because




(a)

the previous owner purchased in British Columbia, brought or sent into
British Columbia or received delivery of in British Columbia the
tangible personal property for resale or lease,




(b)

the tangible personal property was to be used for a particular
purpose, or




(c)

the tangible personal property was to be delivered or transported
outside British Columbia, or was, in whole or in part, for use outside
British Columbia.




(9)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (e) is not met if the
previous owner of the tangible personal property was not subject to,
or was exempt from, tax under the Act in respect of the tangible
personal property because




(a)

the previous owner purchased in British Columbia, brought or sent into
British Columbia or received delivery of in British Columbia the
tangible personal property for resale or lease,




(b)

the tangible personal property was to be used for a particular
purpose, or




(c)

the tangible personal property was to be delivered or transported
outside British Columbia, or was, in whole or in part, for use outside
British Columbia.




(10)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b) do not apply to a
corporation in respect of the tangible personal property unless the
previous owner of the tangible personal property continues to wholly
own and control the corporation for a period of at least 8 months
after the transfer date.




(11)

Subsections (12) and (13) apply to a corporation referred to in
subsection (2) (a) or (b) if the previous owner of the tangible
personal property referred to in that subsection




(a)

paid tax in respect of the tangible personal property only under
section 60, 63, 64 or 66 of the Act, or




(b)

was exempt under this Division from all or a portion of tax imposed
under section 60, 63 or 64 of the Act in respect of the tangible
personal property.




(12)

For the purposes of the exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b), a
corporation to whom this subsection applies is exempt from tax imposed
under Division 2, 4 or 5 or section 60, 63, 64 or 100 of Part 3 of the
Act, as applicable, in respect of the tangible personal property in an
amount that is equal to the lesser of




(a)

the sum of the following:




(i)

the amount of tax the previous owner paid in respect of the tangible
personal property under sections 60, 63, 64 and 66 of the Act and for
which the previous owner has not obtained and is not entitled to
obtain a refund under the Act;




(ii)

if the previous owner was exempt under this Division from all or a
portion of tax imposed under section 60, 63 or 64 of the Act in
respect of the tangible personal property, the amount determined under
this paragraph or section 149 (14) (a)

[tangible personal property transferred between related
corporations]

of this regulation, as applicable, for the purpose of the previous
owner's exemption from tax, and




(b)

the amount of tax that, but for subsection (2) (a) or (b) of this
section, would be payable by the corporation under Division 2, 4 or 5
or section 60, 63, 64 or 100 of Part 3 of the Act, as applicable, in
respect of the tangible personal property.




(13)

Subject to subsection (14), for the purposes of the exemptions under
subsection (2) (a) and (b), a corporation to whom this subsection
applies is exempt from tax imposed under section 66 of the Act in
respect of the tangible personal property in an amount that is equal
to the lesser of




(a)

the difference between the amount determined under subsection (12) (a)
of this section and the amount determined under subsection (12) (b),
and




(b)

the amount of tax that, but for subsection (2) (a) or (b) of this
section, would be payable by the corporation under section 66 of the
Act in respect of the tangible personal property.




(14)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b) of this section from
tax imposed under section 66 of the Act do not apply to a corporation
referred to in subsection (13) of this section in respect of tangible
personal property unless the amount determined under subsection (12)
(a) exceeds the amount determined under subsection (12) (b).






Tangible personal property transferred to new corporation — not wholly
owned and controlled




152

(1)


In this section:



"previous owner"

, in relation to tangible personal property, means the person referred
to in subsection (2) (a) or (b), as applicable, from whom the
corporation referred to in that subsection purchases or acquired, as
applicable, the tangible personal property;



"transfer date"

means the following:




(a)

in respect of tangible personal property referred to in subsection (2)
(a), the date on which the tangible personal property is purchased by
the corporation referred to in that subsection;




(b)

in respect of tangible personal property referred to in subsection (2)
(b), the date on which the tangible personal property was acquired by
the corporation referred to in that subsection.




(2)

Subject to subsections (3), (5) and (6),




(a)

a corporation is exempt from tax imposed under any of the following
provisions of the Act in respect of tangible personal property if the
corporation, at any time on or before the date on which the
corporation starts to carry on business, purchases the tangible
personal property from a person that does not wholly own and control
it:




(i)

Division 2
[Purchases of Tangible Personal Property]
of Part 3;




(ii)

section 60

[tax if conveyance purchased in British Columbia for
interjurisdictional use]

;




(iii)

section 66
[adjustment of tax in respect of conveyance]
;




(iv)

section 101
[tax on reusable containers]
, and




(b)

a corporation is exempt from tax imposed under any of the following
provisions of the Act in respect of tangible personal property if the
corporation, at any time on or before the date on which the
corporation started to carry on business, acquired the tangible
personal property from a person that did not wholly own and control
it:




(i)

Division 4
[Tangible Personal Property Brought into British Columbia]
of Part 3;




(ii)

Division 5

[Property Brought into British Columbia from Outside Canada]

of Part 3;




(iii)

section 63

[tax if conveyance brought into and used in British Columbia]

;




(iv)

section 64
[tax if change in use of conveyance acquired for resale]
;




(v)

section 66
[adjustment of tax in respect of conveyance]
.




(3)

Subject to section 151 (4) to (9)

[tangible personal property transferred to new corporation — wholly
owned and controlled]

and subsection (4) of this section, the exemptions under subsection
(2) (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to a corporation in
respect of tangible personal property unless one or more of the
requirements set out in section 151 (3) (a) to (e) are met.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (3),




(a)

a reference in section 151 (3) to subsection (2) (a) and (b) of that
section is to be read as a reference to subsection (2) (a) and (b) of
this section,




(b)

a reference in section 151 (3) and (5) to (9) to previous owner is to
be read as a reference to previous owner as defined in subsection (1)
of this section,




(c)

a reference in section 151 (3) and (5) to (9) to tangible personal
property is to be read as a reference to tangible personal property
under this section,




(d)

for the purposes of section 151 (3) (a) (i), tax under the Act does
not include tax under section 60, 63, 64 or 66 of the Act,




(e)

the requirement set out in section 151 (3) (d) is not met if the
previous owner of the tangible personal property would have been
exempt under this Division from all or a portion of tax imposed under
section 60, 63, 64 or 66 of the Act in respect of the tangible
personal property, and




(f)

the requirement set out in section 151 (3) (e) is not met if the
previous owner of the tangible personal property was exempt under this
Division from all or a portion of tax imposed under section 60, 63, 64
or 66 of the Act in respect of the tangible personal property.




(5)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b) do not apply to a
corporation in respect of tangible personal property unless all of the
following requirements are met:




(a)

the consideration for the purchase or acquisition of the tangible
personal property by the corporation is the issue or transfer of
shares in that corporation to the previous owner of the tangible
personal property;




(b)

the date on which the shares are issued or transferred to the previous
owner is not more than 30 days after the transfer date;




(c)

the previous owner beneficially owns and holds legal title to all of
the shares so acquired for a period of at least 8 months after the
transfer date.




(6)

For the purposes of the exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b),




(a)

if the fair market value of the shares referred to in subsection (5)
(a) is equal to or greater than the fair market value of the tangible
personal property, the corporation is exempt from tax imposed under
Divisions 2, 4 and 5 and sections 60, 63, 64, 66 and 101 of Part 3 of
the Act in respect of the tangible personal property, and




(b)

if the fair market value of the shares referred to in subsection (5)
(a) is less than the fair market value of the tangible personal
property, the corporation is exempt from tax imposed under Divisions
2, 4, and 5 and sections 60, 63, 64, 66 and 101 of Part 3 of the Act
in respect of the tangible personal property to the extent necessary
to reduce the tax payable under the applicable Division or section to
an amount that is equal to the amount of tax that would be payable
under the applicable Division or section if the purchase price of the
tangible personal property were equal to the difference between the
fair market value of the tangible personal property and the fair
market value of the shares issued or transferred.




Division 3 — Software Transferred between Related Parties





Software transferred between related corporations




153

(1)


In this section:



"previous owner"

, in relation to Part 4 software, means the related corporation
referred to in subsection (2) (a) or (b), as applicable;



"transfer date"

means the following:




(a)

in respect of Part 4 software referred to in subsection (2) (a), the
date on which the Part 4 software is purchased by the corporation
referred to in that subsection;




(b)

in respect of Part 4 software referred to in subsection (2) (b), the
date on which the Part 4 software was purchased by the corporation
referred to in that subsection.




(2)

Subject to subsections (3), (8) and (10) to (12),




(a)

if section 105
[tax on software]
or 107 (1) (b) (i)

[tax on purchase of software for business use on devices in and
outside British Columbia]

of the Act applies to a corporation in relation to Part 4 software,
the corporation is exempt from tax imposed under sections 105, 107 and
108 of the Act in relation to the Part 4 software, if the corporation
purchases the Part 4 software from a related corporation, and




(b)

if section 106
[tax on use of software on device in British Columbia]
or 107 (1) (b) (ii)

[tax on business use of software on devices in and outside British
Columbia]

of the Act applies to a corporation in relation to Part 4 software,
the corporation is exempt from tax imposed under sections 106 to 108
of the Act in relation to the Part 4 software, if the corporation
purchased the Part 4 software from a related corporation.




(3)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b) do not apply to a
corporation in respect of Part 4 software unless one or more of the
following requirements are met:




(a)

subject to subsection (4), a related corporation of either the
corporation or the previous owner of the Part 4 software




(i)

paid tax under the

Social Service Tax Act

, other than Division 2 of Part 2 of that Act, in respect of the Part
4 software and has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain, under
that Act, a refund of that tax;




(ii)

paid tax, in respect of the Part 4 software, under section 165 (2),
212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

, in respect of British Columbia as a participating province under
Part IX of that Act, and has not obtained and is not entitled to
obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a credit or rebate
for that tax, or




(iii)

paid tax under Part 4 of the Act in respect of the Part 4 software and
has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain, under the Act, a
refund of that tax;




(b)

subject to subsection (5),




(i)

the previous owner of the Part 4 software, before July 1, 2010,
acquired in British Columbia, brought or sent into British Columbia or
received delivery of in British Columbia the Part 4 software, and




(ii)

the previous owner was not subject to, or was exempt from, tax under
the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the acquiring in British Columbia, bringing or sending
into British Columbia or receiving of delivery in British Columbia of
the Part 4 software;




(c)

subject to subsection (6),




(i)

the




(A)

previous owner of the Part 4 software, on or after July 1, 2010 but
before April 1, 2013, purchased the Part 4 software in British
Columbia for use on or with an electronic device ordinarily situated
in British Columbia, or




(B)

previous owner of the Part 4 software purchased the Part 4 software
and, on or after July 1, 2010 but before April 1, 2013, the Part 4
software was used on or with an electronic device ordinarily situated
in British Columbia, and




(ii)

the previous owner would have been exempt from tax imposed under
section 105, 106 or 107 of the Act in respect of the purchase or use
of the Part 4 software if the Act and the regulations made under it,
as they read on April 1, 2013, had been in force during the period
referred to in subparagraph (i);




(d)

subject to subsection (7),




(i)

the




(A)

previous owner of the Part 4 software, after April 1, 2013, purchased
in British Columbia the Part 4 software for use on or with an
electronic device ordinarily situated in British Columbia, or




(B)

previous owner of the Part 4 software purchased the Part 4 software
and, after April 1, 2013, the Part 4 software was used on or with an
electronic device ordinarily situated in British Columbia, and




(ii)

the previous owner was exempt from tax imposed under section 105, 106
or 107 of the Act in respect of the purchase or use of the Part 4
software.




(4)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (a) is not met if the
related corporation referred to in that subsection




(a)

paid tax under the Act or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of a portion of the consideration for the Part 4 software,




(b)

paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of
Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

, in respect of British Columbia as a participating province under
Part IX of that Act, in respect of a portion of the consideration for
the Part 4 software, and




(c)

obtained or is entitled to obtain, under Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

, a refund, credit or rebate in respect of the tax referred to in
paragraph (b) of this subsection.




(5)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (b) is not met if the
previous owner of the Part 4 software was not subject to, or was
exempt from, tax under the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the Part 4 software because




(a)

the previous owner purchased in British Columbia, brought or sent into
British Columbia or received delivery of in British Columbia the Part
4 software for resale, or




(b)

the Part 4 software was used or was to be used for a particular
purpose.




(6)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (c) is not met if the
previous owner of the Part 4 software would have been exempt,




(a)

under section 113 of the Act, or




(b)

because the Part 4 software was to be used for a particular purpose,


from tax imposed under the Act in respect of the Part 4 software.




(7)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (d) is not met if the
previous owner of the Part 4 software was exempt,




(a)

under section 113 of the Act, or




(b)

because the Part 4 software was to be used for a particular purpose,


from tax imposed under the Act in respect of the Part 4 software.




(8)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b) do not apply to a
corporation in respect of Part 4 software unless




(a)

the corporation and the previous owner of the Part 4 software remain
related corporations for a period of at least 8 months after the
transfer date, or




(b)

all of the following requirements are met:




(i)

the corporation and the previous owner were related corporations for a
period of at least 8 months before the transfer date;




(ii)

on or after the transfer date, the previous owner is dissolved or
wound up under the

Bank Act

(Canada), the

Business Corporations Act

, the

Canada Business Corporations Act

or the

Winding-up and Restructuring Act

(Canada);




(iii)

the corporation and the previous owner remain related corporations
until such time as the seller is dissolved or wound up.




(9)

Subsections (10) and (11) apply to a corporation referred to in
subsection (2) (a) or (b) in respect of Part 4 software referred to in
that subsection if




(a)

the related corporation referred to in subsection (3) (a) of this
section paid tax in respect of the Part 4 software only under section
107 or 108 of the Act, or




(b)

the previous owner of the Part 4 software was exempt under this
Division from all or a portion of tax imposed under section 107 of the
Act in respect of the Part 4 software.




(10)

For the purposes of the exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b), a
corporation to whom this subsection applies is exempt from tax imposed
under section 105, 106 or 107 of the Act, as applicable, in respect of
the Part 4 software in an amount that is equal to the lesser of




(a)

the sum of the following:




(i)

the amount of tax the previous owner paid in respect of the Part 4
software under sections 107 and 108 of the Act and for which the
previous owner has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain a refund
under the Act;




(ii)

if the previous owner was exempt under this Division from all or a
portion of tax imposed under section 107 of the Act in respect of the
Part 4 software, the amount determined under this paragraph or section
154 (10) (a)

[software transferred to new corporation — wholly owned and
controlled]

of this regulation, as applicable, for the purpose of the previous
owner's exemption from tax, and




(b)

the amount of tax that, but for subsection (2) (a) or (b) of this
section, would be payable by the corporation under section 105, 106 or
107 of the Act, as applicable, in respect of the Part 4 software.




(11)

Subject to subsection (12), for the purposes of the exemptions under
subsection (2) (a) and (b), a corporation to whom this subsection
applies is exempt from tax imposed under section 108 of the Act in
respect of the Part 4 software in an amount that is equal to the
lesser of




(a)

the difference between the amount determined under subsection (10) (a)
of this section and the amount determined under subsection (10) (b),
and




(b)

the amount of tax that, but for subsection (2) (a) or (b) of this
section, would be payable by the corporation under section 108 of the
Act in respect of the Part 4 software.




(12)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b) of this section from
tax imposed under section 108 of the Act do not apply to a corporation
referred to in subsection (11) of this section in respect of Part 4
software unless the amount determined under subsection (10) (a)
exceeds the amount determined under subsection (10) (b).






Software transferred to new corporation — wholly owned and controlled




154

(1)


In this section:



"previous owner"

, in relation to Part 4 software, means the person referred to in
subsection (2) (a) or (b), as applicable, from whom the corporation
referred to in that subsection purchases the Part 4 software;



"transfer date"

means the following:




(a)

in respect of Part 4 software referred to in subsection (2) (a), the
date on which the Part 4 software is purchased by the corporation
referred to in that subsection;




(b)

in respect of Part 4 software referred to in subsection (2) (b), the
date on which the Part 4 software was purchased by the corporation
referred to in that subsection.




(2)

Subject to subsections (3), (8) and (10) to (12),




(a)

if section 105
[tax on software]
or 107 (1) (b) (i)

[tax on business use of software on devices in and outside British
Columbia]

of the Act applies to a corporation in relation to Part 4 software,
the corporation is exempt from tax imposed under sections 105, 107 and
108 of the Act in relation to the Part 4 software if the corporation,
at any time on or before the date on which the corporation starts to
carry on business, purchases the Part 4 software from a person that
wholly owns and controls it, and




(b)

if section 106

[tax on business use of software on device in British Columbia]

or 107 (1) (b) (ii) of the Act applies to a corporation in relation to
Part 4 software, the corporation is exempt from tax imposed under
sections 106 to 108 of the Act in relation to the Part 4 software if
the corporation, at any time on or before the date on which the
corporation started to carry on business, purchased the Part 4
software from a person that wholly owned and controlled it.




(3)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b) do not apply to a
corporation in respect of Part 4 software unless one or more of the
following requirements are met:




(a)

subject to subsection (4), the previous owner of the Part 4 software




(i)

paid tax under the

Social Service Tax Act

, other than Division 2 of Part 2 of that Act, in respect of the Part
4 software and has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain, under
that Act, a refund of that tax,




(ii)

paid tax, in respect of the Part 4 software, under section 165 (2),
212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

, in respect of British Columbia as a participating province under
Part IX of that Act, and has not obtained and is not entitled to
obtain, under Part IX of that Act, a refund of or a credit or rebate
for that tax, or




(iii)

paid tax under Part 4 of the Act in respect of the Part 4 software and
has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain, under the Act, a
refund of that tax;




(b)

subject to subsection (5),




(i)

the previous owner of the Part 4 software, before July 1, 2010,
acquired in British Columbia, brought or sent into British Columbia or
received delivery of in British Columbia the Part 4 software, and




(ii)

the previous owner was not subject to, or was exempt from, tax under
the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the acquiring in British Columbia, bringing or sending
into British Columbia or receiving of delivery in British Columbia of
the Part 4 software;




(c)

subject to subsection (6),




(i)

the




(A)

previous owner of the Part 4 software, on or after July 1, 2010 but
before April 1, 2013, purchased the Part 4 software in British
Columbia for use on or with an electronic device ordinarily situated
in British Columbia, or




(B)

previous owner of the Part 4 software purchased the Part 4 software
and, on or after July 1, 2010 but before April 1, 2013, the Part 4
software was used on or with an electronic device ordinarily situated
in British Columbia, and




(ii)

the previous owner would have been exempt from tax imposed under
section 105, 106 or 107 of the Act in respect of the purchase or use
of the Part 4 software if the Act and the regulations made under it,
as they read on April 1, 2013, had been in force during the period
referred to in subparagraph (i);




(d)

subject to subsection (7),




(i)

the




(A)

previous owner of the Part 4 software, after April 1, 2013, purchased
in British Columbia the Part 4 software for use on or with an
electronic device ordinarily situated in British Columbia, or




(B)

previous owner of the Part 4 software purchased the Part 4 software
and, after April 1, 2013, the Part 4 software was used on or with an
electronic device ordinarily situated in British Columbia, and




(ii)

the previous owner was exempt from tax imposed under section 105, 106
or 107 of the Act in respect of the purchase or use of the Part 4
software.




(4)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (a) is not met if the
previous owner of the Part 4 software




(a)

paid tax under the Act or the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of a portion of the consideration for the Part 4 software,




(b)

paid tax under section 165 (2), 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of
Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

, in respect of British Columbia as a participating province under
Part IX of that Act, in respect of a portion of the consideration for
the Part 4 software, and




(c)

obtained or is entitled to obtain, under Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

, a refund, credit or rebate in respect of the tax referred to in
paragraph (b) of this subsection.




(5)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (b) is not met if the
previous owner of the Part 4 software was not subject to, or was
exempt from, tax under the

Social Service Tax Act

in respect of the Part 4 software because




(a)

the previous owner purchased in British Columbia, brought or sent into
British Columbia or received delivery of in British Columbia the Part
4 software for resale, or




(b)

the Part 4 software was used or was to be used for a particular
purpose.




(6)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (c) is not met if the
previous owner of the Part 4 software would have been exempt,




(a)

under section 113 of the Act, or




(b)

because the Part 4 software was to be used for a particular purpose,


from tax imposed under the Act in respect of the Part 4 software.




(7)

The requirement set out in subsection (3) (d) is not met if the
previous owner of the Part 4 software was exempt,




(a)

under section 113 of the Act, or




(b)

because the Part 4 software was to be used for a particular purpose,


from tax imposed under the Act in respect of the Part 4 software.




(8)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b) do not apply to a
corporation in respect of the Part 4 software unless the previous
owner of the Part 4 software continues to wholly own and control the
corporation for a period of at least 8 months after the transfer date.




(9)

Subsections (10) and (11) apply to a corporation referred to in
subsection (2) (a) or (b) if the previous owner of the Part 4 software
referred to in that subsection




(a)

paid tax in respect of the Part 4 software only under section 107 or
108 of the Act, or




(b)

was exempt under this Division from all or a portion of tax imposed
under section 107 of the Act in respect of the Part 4 software.




(10)

For the purposes of the exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b), a
corporation to whom this subsection applies is exempt from tax imposed
under section 105, 106 or 107 of the Act, as applicable, in respect of
the Part 4 software in an amount that is equal to the lesser of




(a)

the sum of the following:




(i)

the amount of tax the previous owner paid in respect of the Part 4
software under sections 107 and 108 of the Act and for which the
previous owner has not obtained and is not entitled to obtain a refund
under the Act;




(ii)

if the previous owner was exempt under this Division from all or a
portion of tax imposed under section 107 of the Act in respect of the
Part 4 software, the amount determined under this paragraph or section
153 (10) (a)
[software transferred between related corporations]
of this regulation, as applicable, for the purpose of the previous
owner's exemption from tax, and




(b)

the amount of tax that, but for subsection (2) (a) or (b) of this
section, would be payable by the corporation under section 105, 106 or
107 of the Act, as applicable, in respect of the Part 4 software.




(11)

Subject to subsection (12), for the purposes of the exemptions under
subsection (2) (a) and (b), a corporation to whom this subsection
applies is exempt from tax imposed under section 108 of the Act in
respect of the Part 4 software in an amount that is equal to the
lesser of




(a)

the difference between the amount determined under subsection (10) (a)
of this section and the amount determined under subsection (10) (b),
and




(b)

the amount of tax that, but for subsection (2) (a) or (b) of this
section, would be payable by the corporation under section 108 of the
Act in respect of the Part 4 software.




(12)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b) of this section from
tax imposed under section 108 of the Act do not apply to a corporation
referred to in subsection (11) of this section in respect of Part 4
software unless the amount determined under subsection (10) (a)
exceeds the amount determined under subsection (10) (b).






Software transferred to new corporation — not wholly owned and
controlled




155

(1)


In this section:



"previous owner"

, in relation to Part 4 software, means the person referred to in
subsection (2) (a) or (b), as applicable, from whom the corporation
referred to in that subsection purchases the Part 4 software;



"transfer date"

means the following:




(a)

in respect of Part 4 software referred to in subsection (2) (a), the
date on which the Part 4 software is purchased by the corporation
referred to in that subsection;




(b)

in respect of Part 4 software referred to in subsection (2) (b), the
date on which the Part 4 software was purchased by the corporation
referred to in that subsection.




(2)

Subject to subsections (3), (5) and (6),




(a)

if section 105
[tax on software]
or 107 (1) (b) (i)

[tax on business use of software on devices in and outside British
Columbia]

of the Act applies to a corporation in relation to Part 4 software,
the corporation is exempt from tax imposed under sections 105, 107 and
108 of the Act in relation to the Part 4 software if the corporation,
at any time on or before the date on which the corporation starts to
carry on business, purchases the Part 4 software from a person that
does not wholly own and control it, and




(b)

if section 106

[tax on business use of software on device in British Columbia]

or 107 (1) (b) (ii) of the Act applies to a corporation in relation to
Part 4 software, the corporation is exempt from tax imposed under
sections 106 to 108 of the Act in relation to the Part 4 software if
the corporation, at any time on or before the date on which the
corporation started to carry on business, purchased the Part 4
software from a person that did not wholly own and control it.




(3)

Subject to section 154 (4) to (7)

[software transferred to new corporation — wholly owned and
controlled]

and subsection (4) of this section, the exemptions under subsection
(2) (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to a corporation in
respect of Part 4 software unless one or more of the requirements set
out in section 154 (3) (a) to (d) are met.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (3),




(a)

a reference in section 154 (3) to subsection (2) (a) and (b) of that
section is to be read as a reference to subsection (2) (a) and (b) of
this section,




(b)

a reference in section 154 (3) to (7) to previous owner is to be read
as a reference to previous owner as defined in subsection (1) of this
section,




(c)

a reference in section 154 (3) to (7) to Part 4 software is to be read
as a reference to Part 4 software under this section,




(d)

for the purposes of section 154 (3) (a) (iii), tax under Part 4 of the
Act does not include tax under section 107 or 108 of the Act,




(e)

the requirement set out in section 154 (3) (c) is not met if the
previous owner of the Part 4 software would have been exempt under
this Division from all or a portion of tax imposed under section 107
or 108 of the Act in respect of the Part 4 software, and




(f)

the requirement set out in section 154 (3) (d) is not met if the
previous owner of the Part 4 software was exempt under this Division
from all or a portion of tax imposed under section 107 or 108 of the
Act in respect of the Part 4 software.




(5)

The exemptions under subsection (2) (a) or (b) do not apply to a
corporation in respect of Part 4 software unless all of the following
requirements are met:




(a)

the consideration for the purchase or acquisition of the Part 4
software by the corporation is the issue or transfer of shares in that
corporation to the previous owner of the Part 4 software;




(b)

the date on which the shares are issued or transferred to the previous
owner is not more than 30 days after the transfer date;




(c)

the previous owner beneficially owns and holds legal title to all of
the shares so acquired for a period of at least 8 months after the
transfer date.




(6)

For the purposes of the exemptions under subsection (2) (a) and (b),




(a)

if the fair market value of the shares referred to in subsection (5)
(a) is equal to or greater than the fair market value of the Part 4
software, the corporation is exempt from tax imposed under sections
105 to 108 of the Act in respect of the Part 4 software, and




(b)

if the fair market value of the shares referred to in subsection (5)
(a) is less than the fair market value of the Part 4 software, the
corporation is exempt from tax imposed under sections 105 to 108 of
the Act in respect of the Part 4 software to the extent necessary to
reduce the tax payable under those sections to an amount that is equal
to the amount of tax that would be payable under those sections if the
purchase price of the Part 4 software were equal to the difference
between the fair market value of the Part 4 software and the fair
market value of the shares issued or transferred.




Schedule 1


(section 31)


Tangible Personal Property for Hydroelectric Power Generation





Item



Tangible personal property for hydroelectric power generation






1

Control gates, intake valves and stoplogs that control the flow of
water through the weir and into the penstock



2

Expansion joints, surface penstock pedestals, air-release valves
and penstock scour valves



3

Fish and sediment screens that prevent fish and sediment from
entering the penstock



4

Inflatable rubber weirs and controls



5

Manhole entrances obtained for use for penstock inspection and
cleaning



6

Manufactured pipe made of concrete, steel, iron, fibreglass,
wood-staves or high density polyethylene



7
Penstock intake power supply


8
Penstock pipe bridges


9
Penstock stiffening rings


10
Penstock ventilation pipe


11

Pressure release valves and surge facilitators



12
Ring girders


13

Sluice gates that remove sediment from the approach channel to the
penstock to prevent damage to the penstock and power plant
equipment



14
Steel weirs and controls


15

Trash racks, with or without self-clearing apparatus, that prevent
debris from entering the penstock



16

Tunnel bulkheads, access hatches and drain valves






Schedule 2


[am. B.C. Regs. 216/2013, App. 1, ss. 26 and 27; 117/2014, Sch. 4, s.
10; 75/2016.]


(sections 1, 2, 46, 74 and 129)


Tangible Personal Property for Farm Purpose


Table 1 — Bees and Honey





Item


Tangible personal property for farm purpose





1

Bee cages, queen bee cups for grafting bees and queen bee mailing
cartons or boxes



2
Bees


3
Capping melters


4
Comb honey wrappers and labels


5

Containers obtained for use for packaging honey for marketing



6

Foundations designed for use in beekeeping



7

Frames and end bars designed for use in beekeeping



8
Honey extractors


9
Honey storage tanks


10
Honey uncapping planes


11
Honey wire mesh strainers


12
Pollen substitutes


13
Pollinators


14

Sections designed for use by beekeepers



15

Staples and eyelets advertised or marketed for use in beekeeping



16

Wire and wiring tack for frames designed for use in beekeeping





Table 2 — Dairy





Item


Tangible personal property for farm purpose





1

Bulk milk tanks, including tanks obtained for use for shipping
milk



2
Cream cans


3
Cream separators


4
Dairy brushes


5
Dairy filters


6
Dairy pails


7
Milk bottle caps


8
Milk cans


9
Milk coolers


10
Milk storage tanks


11
Milk strainers and filters


12

Milking machines, including any motors and pumps



13
Milking parlour stalls


14
Milking parlour stools


15
Teat dilators


16
Teat dip




Table 3 — Poultry and Eggs





Item


Tangible personal property for farm purpose





1
Brooders


2

Chick boxes and staples obtained for use for chick boxes



3
Chick enclosure materials


4

C-K-A Gene Chick treatment in mash



5
Egg cartons and baskets


6
Egg crates


7
Egg immunization systems


8
Egg packing equipment


9
Hen specks


10
Metal nests


11
Nest eggs


12
Poultry


13
Poultry crates


14

Poultry feeders, waterers, troughs and coordinated cage systems
obtained for use in conjunction with poultry feeders, waterers and
troughs



15

Poultry laying cages if integrated with poultry feeding, watering
and egg gathering systems



16
Turkey guards and saddles




Table 4 — Fencing, Gates, Pens, Stalls and Cages





Item


Tangible personal property for farm purpose





1

Automatic door closures designed for holding animals in stalls



2
Automatic gate openers


3
Barbed wire


4
Cattle guards


5
Chicken wire


6

Crop protection netting systems that enclose a crop to protect the
crop from predators



7
Deer fencing


8

Devices and equipment designed to restrain or hold livestock for
the purposes of servicing, branding, testing or treatment



9

Electric fencing and batteries obtained for use for electric
fencing



10
Fence posts


11
Fencing


12

Gates and gate accessories designed for farm use



13

Head gates and nose bars designed as accessories to devices and
equipment described in item 8 of this table



14
Hog wire


15

Insulators and insulated handles designed for electric fences



16

J Bolts obtained for use for electric fences



17
Livestock pens, cages and stalls


18
Post drivers and post augers


19
Poultry netting


20

Prefabricated livestock flooring slats



21

Prefabricated livestock loading chutes and handling systems



22

Rubber mats designed for use in livestock stalls



23
Stall dividers


24

Staples obtained for use for fencing



25
Steel pipe livestock guards


26

Wire and netting obtained for use for fences



27

Wire mesh obtained for use for cages



28
Wire stretchers


29
Wire tree guards




Table 5 — Pest Management





Item


Tangible personal property for farm purpose





1

Adhesive pest management materials, including barriers, strips,
insect trap coating, bird repellent and glue trap coating



2
Bird scaring devices


3
Disinfectant mats


4

Dusters, sprayers and applicators designed to dispense
fertilizers, pesticides and insecticides



5
Gopher baiting furrow machines


6

Insecticide, fungicide, disinfectant or weed control chemicals
registered under the
Pest Control Products Act
(Canada)



7
Livestock oilers


8

Livestock protectors designed to be attached to livestock to keep
predators and pests away



9
Moth traps


10

Naturally occurring predators and parasites obtained for use as
biological control agents to control specific insect, mite or weed
species



11
Pest control paper


12
Weed and tree sprayers




Table 6 — Waste Management





Item


Tangible personal property for farm purpose





1

Above-ground manure aerating systems



2
Barn cleaners


3
Barn scrapers


4
Barnlitter carriers


5

Incineration units obtained for on-farm use



6
Manure separators


7

Treatment products obtained for on-farm use to promote the decay
of organic materials in water in ponds, dug-outs and reservoirs



8

Treatment products obtained for use to reduce gas and bacteria
levels in litters, bedding and manure





Table 7 — Greenhouses, Nurseries and Mushroom Houses





Item


Tangible personal property for farm purpose





1

Artificial lighting systems obtained for use in greenhouses to
promote plant growth, including replacement bulbs obtained for use
in such lighting systems



2

Automatic product handling and packaging systems that place
seedlings or cuttings in plastic wrap or other containers



3

Automatic travelling sprinklers designed for use in greenhouses



4
Bulb crates and bulb planters


5
Bulbs, corms, rhizomes and tubers


6
Carbon dioxide


7

Carbon dioxide condensers and heat exchangers obtained for use as
part of a greenhouse heating system



8
Carbon dioxide generators


9

Cloches, including hot caps and hot tents



10

Conveyor belts designed to transport pots in nurseries



11
Fillers and flats


12

Flower sorting and bunching equipment



13

Glass that is designed for use in greenhouses, has a light
transmission value of at least 89% and is obtained in quantities
of at least 500 m2



14

Greenhouse and nursery boilers obtained for use in providing heat
for a greenhouse or nursery



15
Growing medium


16

Mushroom bin loaders and unloaders, including the reel, pump and
screen systems



17
Mushroom house boilers


17.1

Natural gas heating systems obtained for use in providing heat for
a greenhouse or nursery



18
Nursery carts


19

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 26 (c).]



20

Plastic or polyethylene sheets that are heavy gauge, UV stabilized
and obtained in rolls at least 100 feet in length and 20 feet in
width



20.1

Polycarbonate panels that are obtained for use in greenhouses and
are obtained in quantities of at least 500 m
2



21
Potting machines and attachments


22
Rolling benches


23
Seedling plug extractors


24
Shade curtains


25

Thermal curtains, including hardware that operates the thermal
curtain, obtained for use in greenhouses to retain heat



26

Tree diggers designed for use in nursery operations





Table 8 — Feed and Water Equipment





Item


Tangible personal property for farm purpose





1

Drinking cups designed for use in fur farming



2
Feed augering systems


3
Feed grinders


4
Feed mixers and feed mixer wagons


5

Feeders and feeding systems designed for livestock, automatic or
manual, including controls and any integrated hardware or software



6

Feeding dishes designed for use in fur farming



7
Feeds, including pigeon feed


8

Food grinders designed for use in fur farming



9
Hay and silage


10
Livestock feeder pails


11

Minerals, medications, nutrients and micronutrients obtained for
use for livestock



12

Mixers designed for use in fur farming



13
Molasses


14
Salt


15
Salt mineral blocks


16

Water bowls designed to be attached to stanchions



17
Water heaters


18
Water warmers


19

Waterers and watering systems designed for livestock, automatic or
manual, including controls and any integrated hardware or software



20
Wheat germ oil




Table 9 — Fuel and Energy





Item


Tangible personal property for farm purpose





1
Auxiliary generating equipment


2
Electricity


3
Heat


4

Kerosene burners and other portable fuel-based burners



5
Natural gas and fuel oil





Table 10 — Fertilizer, Chemicals and Chemical Equipment






Item


Tangible personal property for farm purpose





1
Agricultural lime


2
Calcium chloride


3

Chemicals obtained for use for making fertilizer



4
Fertilizer mixers


5
Fertilizers


6

Hormones, microorganisms and enzymes



7
Sanitizing products and chemicals


8

Sterilizing chemicals and sterilizing equipment, including
electric soil sterilizers and steam generators obtained for use to
sterilize soil





Table 11 — Vehicles, Implements and Related Equipment





Item


Tangible personal property for farm purpose





1
Aerators


2
Bale ejectors


3
Bale loaders


4

Batteries, oil filters, sparkplugs and comparable engine parts, if
obtained for use with tangible personal property described in this
schedule



5

Buckets designed to be attached to front-end loaders



6
Combines


7
Corn binders


8
Corn listers


9
Cultivators


10
Disk harrows


11
Drag harrows


12

Farm implements designed to till the ground or harvest crops



13
Farm seed drills and attachments


14
Farm tractors


15
Forage harvesters


16
Front end loaders


17

Halters and harnesses designed for horses, including hardware



18

Hardware obtained for use for harnesses



19
Harrow carts


20
Hay loaders


21
Hay mowers


22
Hay presses


23
Hay rakes


24
Hay stackers


25
Hay sweeps


26
Hay tedders


27
Horse-drawn vehicles


28
Horseshoes


29

Implements designed to be attached to a farm tractor



30
Land packers


31
Lime spreaders


32
Manure spreaders


33

Pickups designed to be attached to a combine, hay loader or baler



34
Ploughs


35
Potato diggers


36
Potato seed cutters


37

Qualifying all-terrain vehicles that have an engine with a
displacement of 200 cc or greater and that are equipped with a
carrying rack, platform or cargo box



38
Rock pickers


39
Rod weeders


40
Rototillers and rotovators


41
Self-propelled bale wagons


42
Singletrees and irons


42.1

Skid steers and attachments designed to be attached to a skid
steer



43
Sugar beet toppers and windrowers


44
Swathers


44.1

Telescopic handlers and attachments designed to be attached to a
telescopic handler



45
Threshing machines


46
Tires


47
Vine beaters


48

Wagon boxes, tanks and other vehicles that are not self-propelled



49
Wheeled hoes


50

Winches designed to be attached to a farm tractor





Table 12 — Other Equipment





Item


Tangible personal property for farm purpose





1
Bin pilers


2
Cranberry separators


3

Crop and farm product cleaning, sizing, grading and candling
equipment and machines, including washers, brushers, baggers and
dryers



4

Crop planting, harvesting and picking machinery and equipment



5

Culverts and other water-control devices designed for use in
cranberry beds



6
Drain tile


7

Egg beaters designed for use by cranberry farmers



8

Elevating towers designed for use for pruning, thinning, picking
or wiring trees



9
Grain augers and grain elevators


10
Grain grinders


11
Grain testers


12
Grain treaters


13
Hammer mills


14
Hanging gutters


15
Hay slings and grain slings


16

Hay conditioners and hay drying equipment



17
Hop pressers


18
Incubators


19
Irrigation equipment


20
Nut dryers


21
Oat crushers


22
Potato bin unloaders


23
Potato conveyors and elevators


24
Potato sack loaders


25

Refrigeration equipment obtained for use for the cooling or cold
storage of farm products



26
Roller mills


27

Scales designed to weigh livestock



28
Seed cleaners


29

Self-contained dryers designed for drying agricultural produce,
including grain or nuts



30
Self-powered irrigators


31
Silo blowers


32
Silo covers and silage covers


33
Silo unloaders


34
Silos


35
Stainless steel wash tanks


36
Steel granaries


37

Storage tanks, in industrial use sizes, obtained for use for
storing fuel, liquid fertilizer, manure and similar items



38

Thermometers, hydrometers, barometers and other climatic and wind
monitoring equipment and accessories, but not including any
related computer hardware or software



39

Ventilators and air conditioning equipment



40

Wind machines designed for use outdoors to prevent frost damage to
crops





Table 13 — Hand Tools, Ties and Stakes





Item


Tangible personal property for farm purpose





1

Bale ties and wire, including hay baling twine and wire



2
Clay hooks


3
Crop handling carts


4
Hay and manure forks


5
Hoes, mattocks, rakes and picks


6

Ladders designed for fruit picking



7

Pruning shears and clippers, including pneumatic pruning shears
and clippers, but not including air compressors



8
Raspberry picks


9

Scythes, snaths, sickles and blades



10
Sheep clippers


11
Shovels and spades


12

Stakes, posts and poles designed to support crops or trees,
including related ties and clips



13
Tapeners




Table 14 — Other





Item


Tangible personal property for farm purpose





1

Animals, of a kind the products of which ordinarily constitute
food for human consumption



2
Bell ring


3
Calf weaners


4

Containers obtained for use for packaging fruits, vegetables,
flowers, plants, nursery stock and other similar products for
marketing



5
Flame throwers


6
Float valves


7
Fruit tree weights


8
Fruit trees


9
Hay tarps


10

Horses, other than race horses and equestrian horses



11
Jute, plastic and paper bags


12
Livestock


13
Livestock chains


14

Livestock identification tags, including microchips obtained for
use for attachment to livestock for electronic livestock
monitoring, whether or not the tags are impregnated with
insecticides or pesticides



15
Livestock semen


16
Nose plates


17
pH and electroconductivity meters


18
Picking bags


19
Plastic bale and silage bags


20
Pressure cleaners


21

Sand obtained for use for livestock bedding



22
Sawdust and shavings


23

Slicers designed for use by fur farmers



24
Soil anchors


25
Soil mixers


26
Straw


27
Tree pruning paint


28
Tree wound and grafting compound


29
Trees, shrubs and plants


30

Veterinary supplies, including insemination equipment, calf
pullers, castration equipment, debeakers, dehorners, dilators,
medication, restraints, sterilization equipment and syringes



31
Vibro Blenders





Schedule 3

[am. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 28.]

(sections 1, 66 and 130)


Fishing Equipment for Commercial Fishing Purpose





Item


Fishing equipment





1
Aeration equipment


2

Anchors, anchor chain, links and shackles



3
Bait


4
Barometers


5

Batteries obtained for use for boats, gill net lights, radios and
radio equipment



6

Bilge pumps obtained for use for pumping out water resulting from
ice used for freezing or cooling fish



7
Black trawl anchors


8
Bluestone


9
Boat fenders


10
Boat hand bailers


11
Boathooks


12

Bolts obtained for use for attachment to a boat



13

Buoys obtained for use for indicating location of nets



14
Chain


15
Charts and navigating instruments


16

Chocks obtained for use for attachment to a boat for guiding lines



17

Compression fittings obtained for use on a boat



18

Connectors obtained for use as part of fishing gear



19
Depth sounders


20
Dinghies


21
Direction finders


22

Electronic monitoring equipment designed for use for monitoring
fishing activities, and software designed for use on such
equipment



23

Engines obtained for use with boats, including outboard motors



24
Fast eye blocks


25

Fasteners made of galvanized steel, stainless steel, brass or
galvanized brass



26

Fibreglass cloth and resin obtained for use for boat repairs



27

Fish hooks, sinkers, jigs, plugs, lures, spoons and spoon metal



28
Fish lines


29
Fish tags and tagging equipment


30

Floats obtained for use with fishing nets



31
Fog bells and horns


32
Fuel pumps


33
Gaffs


34
Galvanized steering blocks


35
Gill net lights


36
Gurdies


37

Heat-shield insulation blankets obtained for use for boat engines



38
Ice blankets


39
Loose hook blocks


40
Marine electrolysis eliminators


41
Marine paint


42

Metal shapes obtained for use on a boat to designate the type of
boat or the direction in which fishing gear is set



43
Navigation lights


44
Net covers


45
Net dye


46
Oar locks and row locks


47
Oars


48
Otter trawl net leather


48.1

Pet food obtained for use as bait for shrimp



49
Plastic wood and putty


50

Plumbing fittings obtained for use on a boat



51
Portlights


52
Propellers


53
Quadrants designed for rudders


54
Radar reflectors


55
Radios and radio equipment


56
Recorder paper


57

Refrigeration equipment designed for installation on boats



58
Rocking stabilizers


59

Rope obtained for use on a boat or with a fishing net



60

Safety-at-sea equipment, including the following:

(a) buoyancy equipment;

(b) clock stations and supplies;

(c) fire axes and hatchets;

(d) fire extinguishers and refills;

(e) fire-fighting equipment;

(f) flares and rockets;

(g) immersion survival suits;

(h) life rafts;

(i) lifeboats and contents;

(j) public address systems;

(k) sprinkler systems



61
Sails


62

Ship clocks obtained for use on a boat



63

Ship-to-shore radio telephones, but not including cellular
telephones



64
Signal bells


65

Sinks and toilets obtained for use on a boat



66

Snatch blocks obtained for use for holding fishing net lines



67
Steering wheels


68
Stoves and oil burners


69
Tarpaulins and hatch covers


70
Tide tables


71
Traps


72
Trolling bells


73

Trolling blocks obtained for use to guide fishing lines



74

Trolling springs and swivels obtained for use as part of fishing
lines



75

Turnbuckles obtained for use to tighten wires on a mast



76
Underwater viewing scopes


77
Water pumps


78
Winches


79

Wood manufactured for marine use if obtained for use for boat
repairs



80
Zinc plates


81
6-volt, 12-volt and 32-volt lamps


82

20-amp and 30-amp electric cord ends obtained for use for moorage
power






Schedule 4


(sections 1, 49, 76 and 131)


Tangible Personal Property for Aquaculture Purpose





Item



Tangible personal property for aquaculture purpose






1

Aeration equipment, including compressors obtained for use to
aerate water



2

Alarm equipment designed to alert to changes in water conditions



3

Antifoulants obtained for use on nets and boats



4
Aquacultural harvesting machines


5
Aquacultural planting machines


6

Artificial lighting systems obtained for use in hatchery and
nursery operations to promote plant growth, including replacement
bulbs for such lighting systems



7
Artificial seaweed


8

Automated shellfish nursery systems



9

Automatic analyzers for soil or water



10
Automatic feeders


11
Auxiliary generators


12

Bags and containers obtained for use for transporting or packaging
aquaculture products



13

Barrels, styrofoam, whole logs and other items obtained for use
for flotation, but not including structures supported by floats



14

Boats not exceeding 20 m in length, and motors for those boats



15

Booms obtained for use for lifting nets out of the water, other
than pulleys and cranes attached to a boom



16
Cables


17
Centrifuges


18
Chains


19
Chemicals and pharmaceuticals


20

Closed bag containment systems, including pumps and waste
management equipment integrated into the systems



21
Debyssing machines


22
Declumping machines


23
Dip nets and dip net bags


24
Disease identification kits


25
Disease monitoring kits


26
Dissolved oxygen meters


27
Egg graders


28
Egg incubators


29

Electric timing devices and controls for feeders



30

Electric timing devices and controls for water flow



31
Fabric and mesh


32
Fish feed


33
Fish tagging machines and tags


34
Fish tanks


35

Floats made of aluminum, galvanized steel, plastic, polyethylene
or concrete, but not including structures supported by floats



36

Float valves to regulate water pressure



37
High-pressure washers


38

Kelp cleaning and processing machinery



39
Laboratory glassware


40
Ladder racks


41

Machinery and equipment designed for use to wash and grade aquatic
animals or aquatic plants, but not including scales



42

Meters that measure temperature or salinity



43
Microscopes


44

Minerals, medications and nutrients for fish



45

Net pen units, but not including seine nets



46
Netting for cages or pens


47

Pearl nets, mussel socking and other netting designed for
shellfish seed and grow-outs



48
Pelton wheels


49
pH meters


50

Polyethylene shellfish culture bags



51
Predator traps


52

Pumps obtained for use to pump water into or out of fish
enclosures, but not including fish elevators or fresh water lenses



53

Qualifying all-terrain vehicles that have an engine with a
displacement of 200 cc or greater and that are equipped with a
carrying rack, platform or cargo box



54

Remote settling tanks obtained for use in the production of
aquaculture products



55
Rope


56

Scallop ear hanging equipment, including ear hanging pins



57
Seaweed and kelp harvesters


58

Seed collectors, seed bivalves, seed, eggs, smolts and fry



59

Shackles or thimbles obtained for use in joining ropes, cables or
chains in mooring systems



60

Steam generators obtained for use for cleaning hatcheries or
nurseries



61
Temperature chart recorders


62

Trays, suspended from floats, obtained for use for growing oysters



63

Tumblers obtained for use in oyster grow-out operations



64
Water conditioning equipment


65
Water filters


66
Water sterilization equipment


67

Winches, hooks and grapnels obtained for use for placing and
retrieving aquaculture equipment






Schedule 5

[en. B.C. Reg. 216/2013, App. 1, s. 29.]

(section 11)


Tangible Personal Property Not Exempt under Section 11





Item


Tangible personal property





1
Aluminized heat-resistant fabric


2
Ballistic nylon


3
Barkcloth


4
Batting or fibrefill


5
Black-out or dim-out fabric


6
Burlap


7
Cheesecloth


8

Fabric packaged and sold as clothing



9

Fabric packaged or labelled for a purpose other than making or
repairing clothing



10

Fabric that is pre-printed with or incorporates a design or
instructions and is not intended for making clothing



11
Felt


12

Heavy duty canvas and heavy duck cloth



13
Heavy weight corduroy


14
Heavy weight leather and hides


15
Interfacing


16

Mesh fabric, other than mesh fabric designed for making or
repairing clothing



17
Netting, other than tulle


18
Oilcloth


19

Plasticized, plastic backed, rubber backed or rubber coated fabric



20

Pre-cut pieces of fabric packaged, labelled or offered for sale
for a purpose other than making or repairing clothing



21

Upholstery fabric, other than lightweight upholstery fabric



22

Vinyl fabric, including fabric created with polyvinyl chloride but
not including lightweight vinyl fabric






Schedule 6

[en. B.C. Reg. 196/2018, s. 2.]

(Part 5.1)


Specified Major Projects — Kitimat LNG Facility (LNG Canada)





Definitions




1


In this Schedule:



"liquefied natural gas"

means natural gas from which natural gas liquids have been
predominantly removed and that is liquefied;



"LNG facility"

means the LNG facility specified in section 4;


"LNG plant"
means the LNG plant specified in section 5;



"natural gas liquids"

means butane, ethane, propane or pentanes plus and any other
condensates, or any combination of them, whether in gaseous or liquid
form;


"project"
means the project specified in section 2.






Project




2


For the purposes of Part 5.1, the following activities constitute a
project:




(a)

constructing the LNG facility;




(b)

equipping the LNG facility for initial operation;




(c)

constructing anchorages, berthing areas and water access routes for
the LNG facility, including, without limitation, placing navigational
aids;




(d)

constructing the Terminal A Extension project specified in section 6
of this Schedule;




(e)

carrying out environmental measures described in section 7 of this
Schedule.






Cut-off date for project




3


For the purposes of Part 5.1, the cut-off date for the project is the
earliest of the following dates:




(a)

the date that is 7 years after the date this section comes into force;




(b)

the date on which the first 2 liquefaction trains of the LNG facility
have been operated for the purpose of producing liquefied natural gas;




(c)

the date on which the first 2 liquefaction trains of the LNG facility
are, in the opinion of the director, capable of producing liquefied
natural gas.






LNG facility




4

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), for the purposes of this Schedule, the LNG
facility is the facility that is to




(a)

be constructed by LNG Canada Development Inc., and




(b)

consist of all of the following:




(i)

the LNG plant to be located in the District of Kitimat;




(ii)

improvements to land that is




(A)

subjacent to or contiguous with the LNG plant, and




(B)

to be used for the operations of the LNG plant.




(2)

The LNG facility does not include any of the following:




(a)

a pig trap;




(b)

a natural gas pipeline upstream of a pig trap;




(c)

tangible personal property, or improvements to real property, used
primarily in relation to a natural gas pipeline described in
paragraph (b);




(d)

a pipeline used to transport liquefied natural gas, natural gas
liquids or natural gas from the LNG plant or the LNG facility, except
a pipeline used for a purpose described in section
5 (c) (ii) or (iv);




(e)

a vehicle or vessel that is used to transport liquefied natural gas or
natural gas liquids from the LNG plant or the LNG facility.






LNG plant




5


For the purposes of this Schedule, the LNG plant consists of all of
the following:




(a)

tangible personal property and improvements to real property that are
part of a series of systems used or intended to be used for liquefying
natural gas, including, without limitation, tangible personal property
and improvements to real property that are used or intended to be used
for one or more of the following purposes:




(i)

delivering natural gas to the series of systems;




(ii)

receiving or measuring natural gas delivered to the series of systems;




(iii)

removing natural gas liquids from natural gas and separating those
liquids;




(iv)

storing natural gas liquids;




(b)

tangible personal property and improvements to real property that are
part of the series of systems referred to in paragraph (a) and used or
intended to be used for storing liquefied natural gas;




(c)

tangible personal property and improvements to real property that are
part of a series of systems used or intended to be used for one or
more of the following purposes if the series of systems immediately
follows the series of systems referred to in paragraph (a):




(i)

measuring liquefied natural gas or natural gas liquids that are to be
loaded for shipment or transmitted for regasification;




(ii)

loading liquefied natural gas or natural gas liquids for shipment;




(iii)

supporting the loading of liquefied natural gas or natural gas liquids
for shipment;




(iv)

transmitting liquefied natural gas for regasification;




(d)

tangible personal property and improvements to real property that are
used or intended to be used to generate electrical power if the
electrical power is to be used primarily for the series of systems
referred to in paragraph (a);




(e)

tangible personal property and improvements to real property that are
necessary for complying with health, safety and environmental
standards required by law in relation to the use or intended use of
the tangible personal property and improvements to real property that
are described in paragraphs (a) to (d).






Terminal A Extension project




6


For the purposes of this Schedule, the Terminal A Extension project is
the project specified in certificate T15—01 issued under the
Environmental Assessment Act
.






Environmental measures




7


For the purposes of this Schedule, actions are environmental measures
if a person is required by law to carry out the actions to mitigate or
otherwise offset impacts on fish, wildlife, fish or wildlife habitat
or the environment of the activities that the person carries out for
the project.






Software — qualifying infrastructure




8


For the purposes of Part 5.1, the LNG plant is qualifying
infrastructure for the project.






Electricity — qualifying worksites




9


For the purposes of Part 5.1, the following are qualifying worksites
for the project:




(a)

the LNG facility;




(b)

a site that is used substantially for the project.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Provincial Sales Tax Act

, S.B.C. 2012, c. 35, ss. 236, 241, 242 and 243]



