







B.C. Reg. 252/2018

O.C. 655/2018


Deposited December 3, 2018

effective January 8, 2019





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Forest Act


Refusal of Cutting Permit or Road Permit Regulation

[Last amended July 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 151/2022]





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Forest Act

;



"BCTS operating area"

, in relation to a cutting permit or road permit, means an area of
land that, at the time the application for the permit is received by
the minister, is identified as a BCTS operating area on a map in the
Schedule;



"representative timber"

, in relation to an area of land, means timber that, having regard to
the following, is representative of the timber on the area of land:




(a)

the volume, grade and species of the timber on the area of land;




(b)

the circumstances or conditions applicable to the harvesting of the
timber on the area of land;



"specified cutting permit or road permit"

means a cutting permit or road permit




(a)

that covers all or a portion of a BCTS operating area, and




(b)

the application for which is received by the minister on or after
January 8, 2019.






Government objective for section 81.1 of Act




2


For the purposes of section 81.1 of the Act, ensuring that BCTS
generates adequate cost and price information and data respecting the
harvest of representative timber from Crown land through the planning,
development and auction of the authority to harvest timber in BCTS
operating areas is a government objective.






Relevant matters




3


For the purposes of section 81.1 of the Act, the minister must
consider all of the following in determining whether the issuance of a
specified cutting permit or road permit would compromise the
government objective referred to in section 2 of this regulation:




(a)

whether money has been expended under section 109 (3) (a), (a.1), (c)
or (d) of the Act in respect of all or a portion of a BCTS operating
area covered by the specified cutting permit or road permit;




(b)

whether issuance of the specified cutting permit or road permit would
adversely affect a proposed timber harvesting area or road in a BCTS
operating area that is spatially identified in a multi-year
development plan published by BCTS on a publicly accessible website
maintained by or on behalf of the minister;




(c)

whether issuance of the specified cutting permit or road permit would
adversely affect the ability of the timber sales manager to obtain an
adequate 10 year supply of representative timber from the BCTS
operating areas in a timber supply area in the timber sales manager's
BC timber sales business area;




(d)

any mitigating factors that the minister considers to be relevant to
any of the matters referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c).






Reasons for determination




4


If the minister determines under section 81.1 of the Act that the
issuance of a specified cutting permit or road permit would compromise
government objectives as specified in this regulation, the minister
must notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for the
determination.




Schedule

[am. B.C. Reg. 151/2022.]

Maps of BCTS Operating Areas


Babine BC Timber Sales Business Area — BCTS Operating Areas, dated July
1, 2022


Cariboo-Chilcotin BC Timber Sales Business Area — BCTS Operating Areas,
dated July 1, 2022


Chinook BC Timber Sales Business Area — BCTS Operating Areas, dated July
1, 2022


Kamloops BC Timber Sales Business Area — BCTS Operating Areas, dated
July 1, 2022


Kootenay BC Timber Sales Business Area — BCTS Operating Areas, dated
July 1, 2022


Okanagan-Columbia BC Timber Sales Business Area — BCTS Operating Areas,
dated July 1, 2022


Peace-Liard BC Timber Sales Business Area — BCTS Operating Areas, dated
July 1, 2022


Prince George BC Timber Sales Business Area — BCTS Operating Areas,
dated July 1, 2022


Seaward/tłasta BC Timber Sales Business Area — BCTS Operating Areas,
dated July 1, 2022


Skeena BC Timber Sales Business Area — BCTS Operating Areas, dated
July 1, 2022


Strait of Georgia BC Timber Sales Business Area — BCTS Operating Areas,
dated July 1, 2022


Stuart-Nechako BC Timber Sales Business Area — BCTS Operating Areas,
dated July 1, 2022



NOTE: Maps are exempt from publication and may be inspected during
regular office hours at the address specified for that map:






Map


Address




Babine BC Timber Sales Business Area


Babine Business Area Office

183 Highway 16 West

Burns Lake, B.C.

V0J 1E0




Cariboo-Chilcotin BC Timber Sales Business Area


Cariboo-Chilcotin Business Area Office

200 — 640 Borland Street

Williams Lake, B.C.

V2G 4T1




Chinook BC Timber Sales Business Area


Chinook Business Area Office

46360 Airport Road

Chilliwack, B.C.

V2P 1A5




Kamloops BC Timber Sales Business Area


Kamloops Business Area Office

1265 Dalhousie Drive

Kamloops, B.C.

V2C 5Z5




Kootenay BC Timber Sales Business Area


Kootenay Business Area Office

1907 Ridgewood Road

Nelson, B.C.

V1L 6K1




Okanagan-Columbia BC Timber Sales Business Area


Okanagan-Columbia Business Area Office

2501 — 14th Avenue

Vernon, B.C.

V1T 8Z1




Peace-Liard BC Timber Sales Business Area


Peace-Liard Business Area Office

9000 17th Street

Dawson Creek, B.C.

V1G 4A4




Prince George BC Timber Sales Business Area


Prince George Business Area Office

2000 South Ospika Boulevard

Prince George, B.C.

V2N 4W5




Seaward/tłasta BC Timber Sales Business Area


Seaward/tłasta Business Area Office

2217 Mine Road

Port McNeill, B.C.

V0N 2R0




Skeena BC Timber Sales Business Area


Skeena Business Area Office

Room 200, 5220 Keith Avenue

Terrace, B.C.

V8G 1L1




Strait of Georgia BC Timber Sales Business Area


Strait of Georgia Business Area Office

370 South Dogwood Street

Campbell River, B.C.

V9W 6Y7




Stuart-Nechako BC Timber Sales Business Area


Stuart-Nechako Business Area Office

1560 Highway 16 East

Vanderhoof, B.C.

V0J 3A0





[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Forest Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 157, ss. 151 (2) and 151.01 (1).]



