







B.C. Reg. 152/90

O.C. 663/90


Deposited April 26, 1990






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Local Government Act


Regional District of Fraser-Cheam Regulation

[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 396/94]





Storm drainage




1


The Regional District of Fraser-Cheam is granted the power of storm
drainage as a local service.






Enhanced 9-1-1 Emergency Telephone Service




2


The Regional District of Fraser-Cheam is granted the additional power
to provide Enhanced 9-1-1 Emergency Telephone Service as an extended
service.

[en. B.C. Reg. 405/90.]





Transit




3


The Regional District of Fraser-Cheam is granted the additional power
to provide Transit as a local service.

[en. B.C. Reg. 10/91.]





Dyking and Bank Protection




4


The Regional District of Fraser-Cheam is granted the additional power
to provide Dyking and Bank Protection as a local service.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/91.]





Air quality management




5

(1)


The Regional District of Fraser-Cheam is granted the additional power,
as an extended service, of planning for the establishment and
operation of the service of air quality management, including without
limitation, the development and adoption of an air quality management
plan, to be undertaken individually or in contract with or in joint
participation with one or more regional districts including the
Greater Vancouver Regional District, the Central Fraser Valley
Regional District, and the Dewdney-Alouette Regional District.




(2)

For the purpose of establishing and operating the service of planning
for the establishment and operation of the service of air quality
management, the Regional District of Fraser-Cheam, the Greater
Vancouver Regional District, the Central Fraser Valley Regional
District and the Dewdney-Alouette Regional District are hereby
authorized:




(a)

to make expenditures necessary for the establishment and operation of
the service from any surplus funds or any funds not appropriated or
committed for other purposes, from any budget of the regional district
for general services or any other service; and




(b)

to the extent necessary to establish and operate the service, to incur
a deficit for the service in 1992, on the condition that any such
deficit will be carried forward as an expenditure against the service
in 1993.

[en. B.C. Reg. 340/92.]





Base Mapping




6


The Regional District of Fraser-Cheam is granted the additional power
to provide Base Mapping as an extended service.

[en. B.C. Reg. 64/93.]





Property acquisition, etc.




7


The Regional District of Fraser-Cheam is granted the additional power
to provide North Bend Townsite property acquisition, subdivision and
disposal as a local service.

[en. B.C. Reg. 129/93.]





Emergency Programs




8


The Regional District of Fraser-Cheam is granted the additional power
to provide Emergency Programs as an extended service under the

Emergency Program Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 396/94.]


[Provisions of the
Local Government Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 323, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
sectionÂ 799]



