






B.C. Reg. 293/2001


M297/2001



Deposited December 12, 2001







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Health Authorities Act




Regional Health Boards Regulation



[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 162/2008, June 27, 2008]









Definition





1



In this regulation,

"Act"

means the


Health Authorities          Act


.








Amalgamation and renaming of health authorities





2



The health authorities listed in column 2 of Schedule A are amalgamated and
renamed as indicated in column 1 of that Schedule.








Spent





3



Spent. [s. 15.4 of Act repealed by 2002-61-11.]








Regional health boards continued





4



(1)


The regional health boards listed in column 1 of Schedule A are continued as
regional health boards under section 4 (1) of the Act.






(2)


The area of British Columbia constituting the region for each regional
health board is set out in Schedule B.





Schedule A





Column 1








Column 2







Regional Health Boards






Former Constituent Health Authorities





Fraser Health Authority




Fraser Valley Health Region

Simon Fraser Health Region

South Fraser Health Region




Interior Health Authority




Arrow Lakes/Upper Slocan Valley Health Council

Bella Coola and
District Transitional Health Authority

Boundary Health Council

Castlegar and
District Health Council

Central Cariboo Chilcotin Health Council

Columbia
Valley Health Council

Cranbrook Health Council

Creston and District Health
Council

Elk Valley and South Country Health Council

Golden Health Council

Greater Trail Community Health Council

Kimberley Community Health Council

Nelson and Area Health Council

North Okanagan Health Region

Okanagan
Similkameen Health Region

South Cariboo Community Health Council

Thompson
Health Region




Northern Health Authority




Bulkley Valley Health Council

Fort Nelson-Liard Health
Council

Kitimat and Area Health Council

North Coast Community Health
Council

North Peace Health Council

Northern Interior Regional Health
Board

Queen Charlotte Islands/Haida Gwaii Community Health Council

Quesnel and
District Community Health Council

Snow Country Health Council

South Peace
Health Council

Stikine Health Council

Terrace and Area Health Council

Upper Skeena Community Health Council




Vancouver Coastal Health Authority




North Shore Health Region

Powell River Community Health
Council

Sea to Sky Community Health Council

Sunshine Coast Community Health
Council

Vancouver/Richmond Health Board




Vancouver Island Health Authority




Campbell River/Nootka Community Health Council

Capital Health
Region

Central Coast Transitional Health Authority

Central Vancouver Island
Health Region

Comox Valley Community Health Council

Mount Waddington Health
Council







Schedule B


[en. B.C. Reg. 8/2003; am. B.C. Reg. 162/2008, ss. (a) and (b).]



Fraser Health Authority




1

The Fraser Health Authority consists of the following areas:



Fraser Health Authority



Firstly, commencing at the intersection of the southerly boundary of the Province of British Columbia with the westerly boundary of the watershed of Similkameen River; thence northerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Similkameen River to the south boundary of theoretical Township 5, Range 23, West of the 6th Meridian, Yale Division of Yale Land District; thence westerly, northerly and easterly along the south, west and north boundaries of said theoretical Township 5 to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Similkameen River; thence northerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Similkameen River to the southerly boundary of the watershed of Coldwater River; thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the watershed of Coldwater River to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Anderson River; thence northerly along the easterly boundaries of the watersheds of Anderson River, Stoyoma Creek and Ainslie Creek to a point on the easterly boundary of the watershed of Ainslie Creek lying due East of the northeast corner of Tsawawmuck Indian Reserve No. 1; thence due West to said northeast corner of Tsawawmuck Indian Reserve No. 1; thence westerly along the north boundary of said Tsawawmuck Indian Reserve No. 1 to the northwest corner thereof; thence due West to the middle line of Fraser River; thence northerly along the middle line of Fraser River to the north boundary of Township 12, Range 26, West of the 6th Meridian, Yale Division of Yale Land District; thence westerly along the north boundary of said Township 12, to the northwest corner of Section 31 of said Township 12; thence due West to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Nahatlatch River; thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of Nahatlatch River to the summit of the Cascade Mountains as defined for administrative purposes in the

Interpretation Act

, Revised Statutes of British Columbia, 1996, Chapter 238; thence northerly along said summit of the Cascade Mountains to a point thereon, with said point lying due East of the northeast corner of District Lot 5536, Group 1, New Westminster Land District, being Baptiste Smith Indian Reserve No. 1A; thence due West to the northeast corner of said District Lot 5536; thence westerly along the north boundary of said District Lot 5536 to the northwest corner thereof; thence due West to the first point of intersection with the northerly boundary of the watershed of Billygoat Creek; thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of Billygoat Creek to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Lillooet River; thence in a general southerly direction along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Lillooet River to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Pitt River; thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly boundaries of the watershed of Pitt River to a point on the westerly boundary of the watershed of Pitt River lying due East of the southeast corner of District Lot 2029, Group 1, New Westminster Land District; thence due West to the middle line of Indian River; thence southerly along the middle lines of Indian River and Indian Arm, passing to the east of Croker Island and District Lot 177, Group 1, New Westminster Land District, and to the west of Racoon and Boulder Islands, produced to the middle line of Burrard Inlet, with said middle line of Burrard Inlet being also the northerly boundary of the City of Burnaby as defined in the British Columbia Gazette dated April 9, 1992; thence westerly, southerly and easterly along the northerly, westerly and southerly boundaries of the City of Burnaby to the intersection with the westerly boundary of the City of New Westminster as defined in the British Columbia Gazette dated January 8, 1970, said intersection being in the North Arm of the Fraser River; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of the City of New Westminster to the northerly boundary of the District of Delta as defined in the British Columbia Gazette dated January 8, 1970; thence in a general westerly and southerly direction along the northerly and westerly boundaries of the District of Delta to the southwest corner thereof, being a point on the southerly boundary of the Province of British Columbia; thence easterly along the southerly boundary of the Province of British Columbia to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Similkameen River being the point of commencement. Saving and excepting the area outlined in bold black line on the explanatory plan attached as Schedule C.



Interior Health Authority




2

The Interior Health Authority consists of the following areas:



Interior Health Authority



Commencing at the intersection of the 125th meridian of west longitude with the 53rd
parallel of north latitude; thence east along the said 53rd parallel of north latitude to
the 124th meridian of west longitude; thence south along the said 124th meridian of west
longitude to a point lying due West of the northwest corner of District Lot 4750, Cariboo
Land District; thence due East to the northwest corner of said District Lot 4750; thence
easterly along the northerly boundaries of said District Lot 4750 and District Lots 4751,
4752 and 4753, all of Cariboo Land District, to the northeast corner of said District Lot
4753; thence due East to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Tautri Creek; thence
southerly and easterly along the westerly and southerly boundaries of the watershed of
Tautri Creek to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Chilcotin River; thence easterly
along the northerly boundaries of the watersheds of Chilcotin River and Mackin Creek to the
easterly boundary of the watershed of Tingley Creek; thence northeasterly along the easterly
boundary of the watershed of Tingley Creek to a point thereon, with said point lying due
West of the northwest corner of District Lot 6109, Cariboo Land District; thence due East to
the northwest corner of said District Lot 6109; thence easterly along the northerly boundary
of said District Lot 6109 to the northeast corner thereof; thence due East to the middle
line of Fraser River; thence northerly along the middle line of Fraser River to a point
thereon, with said point lying due West of the southwest corner of District Lot 5110,
Cariboo Land District; thence due East to the southwest corner of said District Lot 5110;
thence easterly along the southerly boundaries of said District Lot 5110 and District Lot
8677, Cariboo Land District to the southeast corner of said District Lot 8677; thence
easterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of District Lot 7790, Cariboo Land
District; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of said District Lot 7790 to the
northeast corner thereof; thence due East to the northerly boundary of the watershed of
Sheridan Creek; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of Sheridan
Creek to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Beaver Creek; thence northerly along the
westerly boundary of the watershed of Beaver Creek to a point thereon, with said point lying
due West of the southwest corner of District Lot 4636, Cariboo Land District; thence due
East to the southwest corner of said District Lot 4636; thence easterly along the southerly
boundary of said District Lot 4636 to the southeast corner thereof; thence due East to a
point lying due South of the southwest corner of District Lot 1208, Cariboo Land District;
thence due North to the southwest corner of said District Lot 1208; thence easterly along
the southerly boundaries of said District Lot 1208, and District Lots 1209, 1210, 1202 and
1203, all of Cariboo Land District, to the southeast corner of said District Lot 1203;
thence northerly along the easterly boundary of said District Lot 1203 to the southerly
boundary of the watershed of Victoria Creek; thence easterly along the southerly boundaries
of the watersheds of Victoria Creek, Swift River, and Cunningham Creek to the most easterly
point on the southerly boundary of the watershed of Cunningham Creek which said point lies
due West of the junction of the natural boundaries of Cunningham Creek and Cariboo River, on
the right banks thereof; thence due East, passing through the said junction, to the natural
boundary of Cariboo River, on the left bank thereof; thence northerly and along the last
said natural boundary of Cariboo River to the natural boundary of Windlass Creek on the left
bank thereof; thence southeasterly on a bearing of 125°, a distance of 3.15
kilometres, more or less, to the height of land separating those creeks flowing northerly
into Kimball Creek from those creeks flowing westerly into Cariboo River; thence southerly
along the said height of land to the southerly boundary of the watershed of Kimball Creek;
thence easterly along the southerly boundary of the watershed of Kimball Creek to the
southwesterly boundary of the watershed of Matthew River; thence southeasterly along the
southwesterly boundary of the watershed of Matthew River to the northerly boundary of the
watershed of Mitchell River; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the watershed
of Mitchell River to the southwesterly boundary of the watershed of Castle Creek; thence
southeasterly and easterly along the southwesterly and southerly boundaries of the watershed
of Castle Creek to the southwesterly boundary of the watershed of Raush River; thence
southeasterly along the southwesterly boundary of the watershed of Raush River to the
northerly boundary of the watershed of North Thompson River; thence easterly along the
northerly boundary of the watershed of the North Thompson River to the northerly boundary of
the watershed of Allen Creek;.thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the watershed
of Allen Creek to the height of land that separates those creeks that flow northeasterly
into Albreda River from those that flow southerly into Allen Creek; thence in a general
northerly direction along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Albreda River to a point
thereon lying due West of the southwest corner of District Lot 7383, Cariboo Land District;
thence due East to the southwest corner of said District Lot 7383; thence easterly along the
southerly boundary of said District Lot 7383, and continuing easterly along the northerly
boundary of District Lot 3103, Kamloops Division of Yale Land District, to the northeast
corner thereof; thence due east, a distance of 6.18 kilometres, more or less, to the
westerly boundary of the watershed of Canoe Reach (Kinbasket Lake); thence southerly along
the westerly boundary of the watershed of Canoe Reach (Kinbasket Lake) to the southerly
boundary of the watershed of Foster Creek; thence easterly and northeasterly along the
southerly and southeasterly boundaries of the watershed of Foster Creek to the height of
land that separates those creeks that flow northeasterly into Canoe Reach (Kinbasket Lake)
from those that flow northwesterly into Foster Arm; thence northerly in a straight line to
the most northerly point of land lying southwest of Canoe Reach (Kinbasket Lake) and
southeast of Foster Arm; thence northeasterly in a straight line to the intersection of the
left bank of Baker Creek with the easterly natural boundary of Canoe Reach (Kinbasket Lake);
thence due East to the southeasterly boundary of the watershed of Baker Creek; thence
northeasterly along the southeasterly boundary of the watershed of Baker Creek to the
southerly boundary of the watershed of Hugh Allen Creek; thence easterly along the southerly
boundary of the watershed of Hugh Allen Creek, passing through the summit of Mount Brown, to
the easterly boundary of the Province of British Columbia; thence southerly and westerly
along the easterly and southerly boundaries of the Province of British Columbia to the
westerly boundary of the watershed of Similkameen River; thence northerly along the westerly
boundary of the watershed of Similkameen River to the south boundary of theoretical Township
5, Range 23, West of the 6th Meridian, Yale Division of Yale Land District; thence westerly,
northerly and easterly along the south, west and north boundaries of said theoretical
Township 5 to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Similkameen River; thence northerly
along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Similkameen River to the southerly boundary
of the watershed of Coldwater River; thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the
watershed of Coldwater River to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Anderson River;
thence northerly along the easterly boundaries of the watersheds of Anderson River, Stoyoma
Creek and Ainslie Creek to a point on the easterly boundary of the watershed of Ainslie
Creek lying due East of the northeast corner of Tsawawmuck Indian Reserve No. 1; thence due
West to said northeast corner of Tsawawmuck Indian Reserve No. 1; thence westerly along the
north boundary of said Tsawawmuck Indian Reserve No. 1 to the northwest corner thereof;
thence due West to the middle line of Fraser River; thence northerly along the middle line
of Fraser River to the north boundary of Township 12, Range 26, West of the 6th Meridian,
Yale Division of Yale Land District; thence westerly along the north boundary of said
Township 12, to the northwest corner of Section 31 of said Township 12; thence due West to
the northerly boundary of the watershed of Nahatlatch River; thence westerly along the
northerly boundary of the watershed of Nahatlatch River to the summit of the Cascade
Mountains as defined for administrative purposes in the

Interpretation
Act

, Revised Statutes of British Columbia, 1996, Chapter 238; thence in a general
northwesterly direction along said summit of the Cascade Mountains to the westerly boundary
of the watershed of Cayoosh Creek; thence in general northerly and easterly directions along
the westerly and northerly boundaries of the watershed of Cayoosh Creek to the easterly
boundary of the watershed of Haylmore Creek; thence northerly and westerly along the
easterly and northerly boundaries of the watershed of Haylmore Creek to the southwesterly
boundary of the watershed of Wade Creek; thence northwesterly along the southwesterly
boundary of the watershed of Wade Creek to a point thereon, with said point lying 100.58
metres due North and 1.1 kilometres, more or less, due East of the southeast corner of
District Lot 4713, Lillooet Land District; thence due West to the east boundary of said
District Lot 4713; thence northerly along the east boundary of said District Lot 4713 to the
northeast corner thereof; thence northwesterly in a straight line to the northeast corner of
District Lot 1120, Lillooet Land District; thence westerly along the north boundary of said
District Lot 1120 to the northwest corner thereof; thence westerly in a straight line to the
northeast corner of District Lot 4801, Lillooet Land District, and continuing westerly along
the north boundary of said District Lot 4801 to the northwest corner thereof; thence due
West to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Blackwater Creek; thence westerly along
the northerly boundary of the watershed of Blackwater Creek to the summit of the Cascade
Mountains as previously defined; thence northwesterly along said summit of the Cascade
Mountains to the summit of Chilko Mountain; thence northwesterly to the summit of Good Hope
Mountain; thence westerly to the summit of Howard Peak; thence northwesterly to the summit
of Mount Waddington; thence northerly to the summit of Mount Hickson being a point on the
westerly boundary of the watershed of Mosley Creek; thence northerly along the westerly
boundary of the watershed of Mosley Creek and continuing along the westerly boundary of the
watershed of Colwell Creek to the southerly boundary of the watershed of Klinaklini Lake;
thence northeasterly in a straight line to the point of intersection of the northerly
boundary of the watershed of Clearwater Lake with the 125th meridian of west longitude;
thence north along the said 125th meridian of west longitude to its intersection with the
53rd parallel of north latitude, being the point of commencement.



Nisg̱a'a Health Authority




3

Nisg̱a'a  Health Authority consists of the following areas:



Nisg̱a'a Health Authority



Commencing at the northeast corner of District Lot 1788, Cassiar Land District;
thence southerly along the easterly boundaries of said District Lot 1788 and District Lot
1794, Cassiar Land District, to the southeast corner of said District Lot 1794; thence
westerly along the southerly boundary of said District Lot 1794 to the northeast corner of
District Lot 1795, Cassiar Land District; thence southerly and westerly along the easterly
and southerly boundaries of said District Lot 1795 to the northeast corner of District Lot
1776, Cassiar Land District; thence southerly along the easterly boundary of said District
Lot 1776 to the northerly boundary of District Lot 1796, Cassiar Land District; thence
easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly boundaries of said District Lot 1796
to the southeast corner thereof; thence due South to the easterly boundary of the watershed
of North Seaskinnish Creek; thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly
boundaries of the watersheds of North Seaskinnish Creek, Seaskinnish Creek, Tseax River and
Lava Lake to the 55th parallel of north latitude; thence west along the 55th parallel of
north latitude to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Ksedin Creek; thence southerly
and westerly along the easterly and southerly boundaries of the watershed of Ksedin Creek to
the easterly boundary of the watershed of Ishkheenickh River; thence southerly, westerly and
northerly along the easterly, southerly and westerly boundaries of the watershed of
Ishkheenickh River to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Kwinamass River; thence
westerly along the northerly boundaries of the watersheds of Kwinamass River and Kwinamass
Bay to a point on the northerly boundary of the watershed of Kwinamass River, with said
point being southeasterly in a straight line, on a bearing of 135°, from the
southeast corner of District Lot 6439, Range 5, Coast Land District; thence 315° to
the southeast corner of said District Lot 6439; thence northerly and westerly along the
easterly and northerly boundaries of said District Lot 6439 to the northwest corner thereof;
thence northwesterly in a straight line, on a bearing of 315°, to the middle line of
Portland Inlet; thence northeasterly along the middle line of Portland Inlet and continuing
northeasterly along the middle lines of Observatory Inlet, Liddle Channel and Alice Arm, to
a point lying due West of the southwest corner of District Lot 60, Range 5, Coast Land
District; thence due East to the southwest corner of said District Lot 60; thence easterly
along the southerly boundary of said District Lot 60 to the southeast corner thereof; thence
northerly along the easterly boundaries of said District Lot 60 and District Lots 51, 54 and
57, all of Range 5, Coast Land District, to the northeast corner of said District Lot 57;
thence due North to the southeasterly boundary of the watershed of Dak River; thence
northeasterly along the southeasterly boundary of the watershed of Dak River to the summit
of the Cascade Mountains as defined for administrative purposes in the

Interpretation Act

, Revised Statutes of British Columbia, 1996, Chapter
238; thence northerly along said summit of the Cascade Mountains to the northerly boundary
of the watershed of Lahte Creek; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the
watershed of Lahte Creek to the most easterly point thereon that lies due West of the
northwest corner of District Lot 3158, Cassiar Land District; thence due East to the
northwest corner of said District Lot 3158; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of
said District Lot 3158 to the northeast corner thereof; thence due East to the easterly
boundary of the watershed of Kinskuch River; thence southerly along the easterly boundary of
the watershed of Kinskuch River to a point thereon, with said point lying due North of the
northeast corner of District Lot 3131, Cassiar Land District ; thence due South to the
northeast corner of said District Lot 3131; thence southerly along the easterly boundary of
said District Lot 3131 to the southeast corner thereof; thence southeasterly in a straight
line to the northeast corner of District Lot 4001, Cassiar Land District; thence southerly
along the easterly boundaries of said District Lot 4001 and District Lot 4006, Cassiar Land
District, to the southwest corner of District Lot 4005, Cassiar Land District; thence
easterly along the southerly boundaries of said District Lot 4005 and District Lots 1789,
1790, 1791 and 1792, all of Cassiar Land District, to the northeast corner of said District
Lot 1788, being the point of commencement.



Northern Health Authority




4

The Northern Health Authority consists of the following areas:



Northern Health Authority



Commencing at the intersection of the 125th meridian of west longitude with the 53rd
parallel of north latitude; thence east along the said 53rd parallel of north latitude to
the 124th meridian of west longitude; thence south along the said 124th meridian of west
longitude to a point lying due West of the northwest corner of District Lot 4750, Cariboo
Land District; thence due East to the northwest corner of said District Lot 4750; thence
easterly along the northerly boundaries of said District Lot 4750 and District Lots 4751,
4752 and 4753, all of Cariboo Land District, to the northeast corner of said District Lot
4753; thence due East to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Tautri Creek; thence
southerly and easterly along the westerly and southerly boundaries of the watershed of
Tautri Creek to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Chilcotin River; thence easterly
along the northerly boundaries of the watersheds of Chilcotin River and Mackin Creek to the
easterly boundary of the watershed of Tingley Creek; thence northeasterly along the easterly
boundary of the watershed of Tingley Creek to a point thereon, with said point lying due
West of the northwest corner of District Lot 6109, Cariboo Land District; thence due East to
the northwest corner of said District Lot 6109; thence easterly along the northerly boundary
of said District Lot 6109 to the northeast corner thereof; thence due East to the middle
line of Fraser River; thence northerly along the middle line of Fraser River to a point
thereon, with said point lying due West of the southwest corner of District Lot 5110,
Cariboo Land District; thence due East to the southwest corner of said District Lot 5110;
thence easterly along the southerly boundaries of said District Lot 5110 and District Lot
8677, Cariboo Land District to the southeast corner of said District Lot 8677; thence
easterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of District Lot 7790, Cariboo Land
District; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of said District Lot 7790 to the
northeast corner thereof; thence due East to the northerly boundary of the watershed of
Sheridan Creek; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of Sheridan
Creek to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Beaver Creek; thence northerly along the
westerly boundary of the watershed of Beaver Creek to a point thereon, with said point lying
due West of the southwest corner of District Lot 4636, Cariboo Land District; thence due
East to the southwest corner of said District Lot 4636; thence easterly along the southerly
boundary of said District Lot 4636 to the southeast corner thereof; thence due East to a
point lying due South of the southwest corner of District Lot 1208, Cariboo Land District;
thence due North to the southwest corner of said District Lot 1208; thence easterly along
the southerly boundaries of said District Lot 1208, and District Lots 1209, 1210, 1202 and
1203, all of Cariboo Land District, to the southeast corner of said District Lot 1203;
thence northerly along the easterly boundary of said District Lot 1203 to the southerly
boundary of the watershed of Victoria Creek; thence easterly along the southerly boundaries
of the watersheds of Victoria Creek, Swift River, and Cunningham Creek to the most easterly
point on the southerly boundary of the watershed of Cunningham Creek which said point lies
due West of the junction of the natural boundaries of Cunningham Creek and Cariboo River, on
the right banks thereof; thence due East, passing through the said junction, to the natural
boundary of Cariboo River, on the left bank thereof; thence northerly and along the last
said natural boundary of Cariboo River to the natural boundary of Windlass Creek on the left
bank thereof; thence southeasterly on a bearing of 125°, a distance of 3.15
kilometres, more or less, to the height of land separating those creeks flowing northerly
into Kimball Creek from those creeks flowing westerly into Cariboo River; thence southerly
along the said height of land to the southerly boundary of the watershed of Kimball Creek;
thence easterly along the southerly boundary of the watershed of Kimball Creek to the
southwesterly boundary of the watershed of Matthew River; thence southeasterly along the
southwesterly boundary of the watershed of Matthew River to the northerly boundary of the
watershed of Mitchell River; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the watershed
of Mitchell River to the southwesterly boundary of the watershed of Castle Creek; thence
southeasterly and easterly along the southwesterly and southerly boundaries of the watershed
of Castle Creek to the southwesterly boundary of the watershed of Raush River; thence
southeasterly along the southwesterly boundary of the watershed of Raush River to the
northerly boundary of the watershed of North Thompson River; thence easterly along the
northerly boundary of the watershed of the North Thompson River to the northerly boundary of
the watershed of Allen Creek; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the watershed
of Allen Creek to the height of land that separates those creeks that flow northeasterly
into Albreda River from those that flow southerly into Allen Creek; thence in a general
northerly direction along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Albreda River to a point
thereon lying due West of the southwest corner of District Lot 7383, Cariboo Land District;
thence due East to the southwest corner of said District Lot 7383; thence easterly along the
southerly boundary of said District Lot 7383, and continuing easterly along the northerly
boundary of District Lot 3103, Kamloops Division of Yale Land District, to the northeast
corner thereof; thence due east, a distance of 6.18 kilometres, more or less, to the
westerly boundary of the watershed of Canoe Reach (Kinbasket Lake); thence southerly along
the westerly boundary of the watershed of Canoe Reach (Kinbasket Lake) to the southerly
boundary of the watershed of Foster Creek; thence easterly and northeasterly along the
southerly and southeasterly boundaries of the watershed of Foster Creek to the height of
land that separates those creeks that flow northeasterly into Canoe Reach (Kinbasket Lake)
from those that flow northwesterly into Foster Arm; thence northerly in a straight line to
the most northerly point of land lying southwest of Canoe Reach (Kinbasket Lake) and
southeast of Foster Arm; thence northeasterly in a straight line to the intersection of the
left bank of Baker Creek with the easterly natural boundary of Canoe Reach (Kinbasket Lake);
thence due East to the southeasterly boundary of the watershed of Baker Creek; thence
northeasterly along the southeasterly boundary of the watershed of Baker Creek to the
southerly boundary of the watershed of Hugh Allen Creek; thence easterly along the southerly
boundary of the watershed of Hugh Allen Creek, passing through the summit of Mount Brown, to
the easterly boundary of the Province of British Columbia; thence northerly and westerly
along the easterly and northerly boundaries of the Province of British Columbia to the
northwest corner thereof, being a point on the easterly boundary of the State of Alaska;
thence in a general southeasterly direction along the easterly boundary of the State of
Alaska to the most southerly southeast corner thereof, located south of Haystack Island;
thence westerly along the most southerly boundary of the State of Alaska to the westerly
boundary of the Province of British Columbia situated in the Pacific Ocean, west of Dixon
Entrance; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of the Province of British Columbia
to a point thereon, with said point being due West of the most southerly point of Gosling
Island; thence due East to the intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the
middle line of Hecate Strait; thence northwesterly to and along the middle line of Hecate
Strait to the southwesterly prolongation of the middle line of Caamano Sound; thence
northeasterly to and along the middle line of Caamano Sound and continuing northeasterly
along the middle line of Campania Sound to the southwesterly prolongation of the middle line
of Casanave Passage; thence northeasterly to and along the middle line of Casanave Passage
and the middle line produced, to the middle line of Whale Channel; thence northerly along
the middle line of Whale Channel to the southwesterly prolongation of the middle line of
McKay Reach; thence easterly to and along the middle line of McKay Reach, and continuing
southeasterly and southerly along the middle lines of Fraser Reach, Butedale Pass, Graham
Reach, Hiekish Narrows and Finlayson Channel to the westerly prolongation of the middle line
of Oscar Passage; thence easterly to and along the middle line of Oscar Passage to the most
easterly point thereof; thence easterly in a straight line, crossing Mathieson Channel, to
the middle line of Salmon Bay, at the most westerly point thereof; thence easterly along the
middle line of Salmon Bay to the natural boundary of Don Peninsula, on the westerly shore
thereof; thence due East to the height of land separating the waters flowing westerly into
Mathieson Channel from those flowing easterly into Spiller Inlet; thence northerly along
said height of land to the southerly boundary of the watershed of Kynoch Inlet; thence in a
general easterly direction along the southerly boundary of the watershed of Kynoch Inlet to
the westerly boundary of the watershed of Nascall River; thence northerly, easterly and
southerly along the westerly, northerly and easterly boundaries of the watershed of Nascall
River to the southerly boundary of the watershed of Kitlope River; thence easterly and
northerly along the southerly and easterly boundaries of the watershed of Kitlope River to
the summit of the Cascade Mountains as defined for administrative purposes in the

Interpretation Act

, Revised Statutes of British Columbia, 1996, Chapter
238; thence in a general southerly direction along said summit of the Cascade Mountains to
the 53rd parallel of north latitude; thence east along the 53rd parallel of north latitude
to its intersection with the 125th meridian of west longitude, being the point of
commencement.


Saving and excepting the Nisg̱a'a Health Authority described in section 3 of
this Schedule.



Vancouver Coastal Health Authority




5

The Vancouver Coastal Health Authority consists of the following areas:



Vancouver Coastal Health Authority



Firstly, commencing at a point on the southern boundary of the Province of British
Columbia, with said point being the deflection in the said southern boundary which lies
midway between Roberts Bank and Galiano Island, and also being on the middle line of the
Strait of Georgia; thence northwesterly along the middle line of the Strait of Georgia to
the southerly prolongation of the middle line of Malaspina Strait; thence northerly to and
along the middle line of Malaspina Strait to a point due East of Young Point, Lasqueti
Island; thence due West to the southeasterly prolongation of the middle line of Sabine
Channel; thence northwesterly to and along the middle line of Sabine Channel, passing
between Lasqueti and Texada Islands, to the northerly entrance of said Sabine Channel;
thence due West to the middle line of the Strait of Georgia; thence northwesterly along the
middle line of the Strait of Georgia, and passing between Mitlenatch Island and Hernando
Island, to the southwesterly prolongation of the middle line of Baker Passage; thence
northeasterly to and along the middle line of Baker Passage produced to the southerly
prolongation of the middle line of Lewis Channel; thence northerly to and along the middle
line of Lewis Channel, passing to the east of Powell Islets and to the west of Klinghorn
Island, to the westerly prolongation of the middle line of Desolation Sound; thence easterly
to and along the middle line of Desolation Sound produced to the southwesterly prolongation
of the middle line of Homfray Channel; thence northeasterly to and along the middle line of
Homfray Channel and continuing northerly and northwesterly along the middle line of Homfray
Channel produced to the middle line of Pryce Channel; thence westerly along the middle line
of Pryce Channel to the southwesterly prolongation of the middle line of Toba Inlet; thence
northeasterly along the middle line of Toba Inlet, passing to the west of Channel Island, to
a point thereon, with said point being due South of the summit of Mount Barner; thence due
North to the summit of Mount Barner, being a point on the easterly boundary of the watershed
of Brem River; thence northerly along the easterly boundaries of the watersheds of Brem and
Orford Rivers to the southerly boundary of the watershed of Southgate River; thence easterly
along the southerly boundary of the watershed of Southgate River to the summit of the
Cascade Mountains as defined for administrative purposes in the

Interpretation
Act

, Revised Statutes of British Columbia, 1996, Chapter 238; thence southeasterly
along said summit of the Cascade Mountains to the northerly boundary of the watershed of
Blackwater Creek; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of
Blackwater Creek to a point thereon lying due West of the northwest corner of District Lot
4801, Lillooet Land District; thence due East to the said northwest corner of District Lot
4801, and continuing easterly along the north boundary of said District Lot 4801 to the
northeast corner thereof; thence easterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of
District Lot 1120, Lillooet Land District; thence easterly along the north boundary of said
District Lot 1120 to the northeast corner thereof; thence southeasterly in a straight line
to the northeast corner of District Lot 4713, Lillooet Land District; thence southerly along
the east boundary of said District Lot 4713 to a point 110.58 metres northerly from the
southeast corner thereof; thence due East to the southwesterly boundary of the watershed of
Wade Creek; thence southeasterly along the southwesterly boundary of the watershed of Wade
Creek to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Haylmore Creek; thence easterly and
southerly along the northerly and easterly boundaries of the watershed of Haylmore Creek to
the northerly boundary of the watershed of Cayoosh Creek; thence westerly and southerly
along the northerly and westerly boundaries of the watershed of Cayoosh Creek to the summit
of the Cascade Mountains as previously defined; thence southeasterly along the said summit
of the Cascade Mountains to a point thereon, with said point lying due East of the northeast
corner of District Lot 5536, Group 1, New Westminster Land District, being Baptiste Smith
Indian Reserve No. 1A; thence due West to the northeast corner of said District Lot 5536;
thence westerly along the north boundary of said District Lot 5536 to the northwest corner
thereof; thence due West to the first point of intersection with the northerly boundary of
the watershed of Billygoat Creek; thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the
watershed of Billygoat Creek to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Lillooet River;
thence in a general southerly direction along the westerly boundary of the watershed of
Lillooet River to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Pitt River; thence westerly and
southerly along the northerly and westerly boundaries of the watershed of Pitt River to a
point on the westerly boundary of the watershed of Pitt River lying due East of the
southeast corner of District Lot 2029, Group 1, New Westminster Land District; thence due
West to the middle line of Indian River; thence southerly along the middle lines of Indian
River and Indian Arm, passing to the east of Croker Island and District Lot 177, Group 1,
New Westminster Land District, and to the west of Racoon and Boulder Islands, produced to
the middle line of Burrard Inlet, with said middle line of Burrard Inlet being also the
northerly boundary of the City of Burnaby as defined in the British Columbia Gazette dated
April 9, 1992; thence westerly, southerly and easterly along the northerly, westerly and
southerly boundaries of the City of Burnaby to the intersection with the westerly boundary
of the City of New Westminster as defined in the British Columbia Gazette dated January 8,
1970, said intersection being in the North Arm of the Fraser River; thence southerly along
the westerly boundary of the City of New Westminster to the northerly boundary of the
District of Delta as defined in the British Columbia Gazette dated January 8, 1970; thence
in a general westerly and southerly direction along the northerly and westerly boundaries of
the District of Delta to the southwest corner thereof, being a point on the southerly
boundary of the Province of British Columbia; thence westerly along the southerly boundary
of the Province of British Columbia to the point of commencement;


and


Secondly, commencing at the intersection of the 125th meridian of west longitude
with the 53rd parallel of north latitude; thence south along the said 125th meridian of west
longitude to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Clearwater Lake; thence
southwesterly in a straight line to the intersection of the southerly boundary of the
watershed of Klinaklini Lake with the westerly boundary of the watershed of Colwell Creek;
thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the watershed of Klinaklini Lake to a point
thereon, which said point lies on a straight line having a bearing of 150° from the
most southerly corner of District Lot 1687, Range 2, Coast Land District; thence
330° to the said most southerly corner of District Lot 1687; thence 315° to
the northeasterly boundary of the watershed of Jobin Creek; thence northwesterly along the
northeasterly boundary of the watershed of Jobin Creek to the northerly boundary of the
watershed of Klinaklini River; thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and
westerly boundaries of the watershed of Klinaklini River to the southerly boundary of the
watershed of Machmell River; thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the watershed
of Machmell River to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Smokehouse Creek; thence
southerly and southwesterly along the easterly and southeasterly boundaries of the watershed
of Smokehouse Creek to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Long Lake; thence southerly
and westerly along the easterly and southerly boundaries of the watersheds of Long Lake,
Wyclees Lagoon and Takush River to a point on the southerly boundary of the watershed of
Takush River, with said point being due East of the southeast corner of District Lot 748,
Range 2, Coast Land District; thence due West to the said southeast corner of said District
Lot 748; thence westerly along the south boundary of said District Lot 748 to the northeast
corner of District Lot 241, Range 2, Coast Land District; thence westerly and southerly
along the north and west boundaries of said District Lot 241 to the northeast corner of
District Lot 239, Range 2, Coast Land District; thence southerly and westerly along the east
and south boundaries of said District Lot 239 to the most westerly southwest corner thereof,
being a point on the natural boundary of Silvester Bay; thence westerly along said natural
boundary of Silvester Bay to the natural boundary of Queen Charlotte Sound; thence
northwesterly along said natural boundary of Queen Charlotte Sound to the most westerly
point of Cape Caution; thence southwesterly in a straight line to the intersection of the
51st parallel of north latitude with the 128th meridian of west longitude, being a point in
Queen Charlotte Sound; thence west along the said 51st parallel of north latitude to the
westerly boundary of the Province of British Columbia; thence northerly along the westerly
boundary of the Province of British Columbia to a point thereon, with said point being due
West of the most southerly point of Gosling Island; thence due East to the intersection with
the southeasterly prolongation of the middle line of Hecate Strait; thence northwesterly to
and along the middle line of Hecate Strait to the southwesterly prolongation of the middle
line of Caamano Sound; thence northeasterly to and along the middle line of Caamano Sound
and continuing northeasterly along the middle line of Campania Sound to the southwesterly
prolongation of the middle line of Casanave Passage; thence northeasterly to and along the
middle line of Casanave Passage and the middle line produced, to the middle line of Whale
Channel; thence northerly along the middle line of Whale Channel to the southwesterly
prolongation of the middle line of McKay Reach; thence easterly to and along the middle line
of McKay Reach, and continuing southeasterly and southerly along the middle lines of Fraser
Reach, Butedale Pass, Graham Reach, Hiekish Narrows and Finlayson Channel to the westerly
prolongation of the middle line of Oscar Passage; thence easterly to and along the middle
line of Oscar Passage to the most easterly point thereof; thence easterly in a straight
line, crossing Mathieson Channel, to the middle line of Salmon Bay, at the most westerly
point thereof; thence easterly along the middle line of Salmon Bay to the natural boundary
of Don Peninsula, on the westerly shore thereof; thence due East to the height of land
separating the waters flowing westerly into Mathieson Channel from those flowing easterly
into Spiller Inlet; thence northerly along said height of land to the southerly boundary of
the watershed of Kynoch Inlet; thence in a general easterly direction along the southerly
boundary of the watershed of Kynoch Inlet to the westerly boundary of the watershed of
Nascall River; thence northerly, easterly and southerly along the westerly, northerly and
easterly boundaries of the watershed of Nascall River to the southerly boundary of the
watershed of Kitlope River; thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly
boundaries of the watershed of Kitlope River to the summit of the Cascade Mountains as
defined for administrative purposes in the

Interpretation Act

, Revised
Statutes of British Columbia, 1996, Chapter 238; thence in a general southerly direction
along said summit of the Cascade Mountains to the 53rd parallel of north latitude; thence
east along the 53rd parallel of north latitude to its intersection with the 125th meridian
of west longitude, being the point of commencement;


and


Thirdly, the area outlined in bold black line on the explanatory plan attached as Schedule C.



Vancouver Island Health Authority




6

The Vancouver Island Health Authority consists of the following areas:



Vancouver Island Health Authority



Commencing at a point on the southern boundary of the Province of British Columbia,
with said point being the deflection in the said southern boundary which lies midway between
Roberts Bank and Galiano Island, and also being on the middle line of the Strait of Georgia;
thence northwesterly along the middle line of the Strait of Georgia to the southerly
prolongation of the middle line of Malaspina Strait; thence northerly to and along the
middle line of Malaspina Strait to a point due East of Young Point, Lasqueti Island; thence
due West to the southeasterly prolongation of the middle line of Sabine Channel; thence
northwesterly to and along the middle line of Sabine Channel, passing between Lasqueti and
Texada Islands, to the northerly entrance of said Sabine Channel; thence due West to the
middle line of the Strait of Georgia; thence northwesterly along the middle line of the
Strait of Georgia, and passing between Mitlenatch Island and Hernando Island, to the
southwesterly prolongation of the middle line of Baker Passage; thence northeasterly to and
along the middle line of Baker Passage produced to the southerly prolongation of the middle
line of Lewis Channel; thence northerly to and along the middle line of Lewis Channel,
passing to the east of Powell Islets and to the west of Klinghorn Island, to the westerly
prolongation of the middle line of Desolation Sound; thence easterly to and along the middle
line of Desolation Sound produced to the southwesterly prolongation of the middle line of
Homfray Channel; thence northeasterly to and along the middle line of Homfray Channel and
continuing northerly and northwesterly along the middle line of Homfray Channel produced to
the middle line of Pryce Channel; thence westerly along the middle line of Pryce Channel to
the southwesterly prolongation of the middle line of Toba Inlet; thence northeasterly along
the middle line of Toba Inlet, passing to the west of Channel Island, to a point thereon,
with said point being due South of the summit of Mount Barner; thence due North to the
summit of Mount Barner, being a point on the easterly boundary of the watershed of Brem
River; thence northerly along the easterly boundaries of the watersheds of Brem and Orford
Rivers to the southerly boundary of the watershed of Southgate River; thence easterly along
the southerly boundary of the watershed of Southgate River to the summit of the Cascade
Mountains as defined for administrative purposes in the

Interpretation
Act

, Revised Statutes of British Columbia, 1996, Chapter 238; thence northwesterly
along said summit of the Cascade Mountains to the summit of Chilko Mountain; thence
northwesterly to the summit of Good Hope Mountain; thence westerly to the summit of Howard
Peak; thence northwesterly to the summit of Mount Waddington; thence northerly to the summit
of Mount Hickson being a point on the westerly boundary of the watershed of Mosley Creek;
thence northerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Mosley Creek and continuing
along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Colwell Creek to the southerly boundary of
the watershed of Klinaklini Lake; thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the
watershed of Klinaklini Lake to a point thereon, which said point lies on a straight line
having a bearing of 150° from the most southerly corner of District Lot 1687, Range
2, Coast Land District; thence 330° to the said most southerly corner of District
Lot 1687; thence 315° to the northeasterly boundary of the watershed of Jobin Creek;
thence northwesterly along the northeasterly boundary of the watershed of Jobin Creek to the
northerly boundary of the watershed of Klinaklini River; thence westerly and southerly along
the northerly and westerly boundaries of the watershed of Klinaklini River to the southerly
boundary of the watershed of Machmell River; thence westerly along the southerly boundary of
the watershed of Machmell River to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Smokehouse
Creek; thence southerly and southwesterly along the easterly and southeasterly boundaries of
the watershed of Smokehouse Creek to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Long Lake;
thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly boundaries of the watersheds
of Long Lake, Wyclees Lagoon and Takush River to a point on the southerly boundary of the
watershed of Takush River, with said point being due East of the southeast corner of
District Lot 748, Range 2, Coast Land District; thence due West to the said southeast corner
of said District Lot 748; thence westerly along the south boundary of said District Lot 748
to the northeast corner of District Lot 241, Range 2, Coast Land District; thence westerly
and southerly along the north and west boundaries of said District Lot 241 to the northeast
corner of District Lot 239, Range 2, Coast Land District; thence southerly and westerly
along the east and south boundaries of said District Lot 239 to the most westerly southwest
corner thereof, being a point on the natural boundary of Silvester Bay; thence westerly
along said natural boundary of Silvester Bay to the natural boundary of Queen Charlotte
Sound; thence northwesterly along said natural boundary of Queen Charlotte Sound to the most
westerly point of Cape Caution; thence southwesterly in a straight line to the intersection
of the 51st parallel of north latitude with the 128th meridian of west longitude, being a
point in Queen Charlotte Sound; thence west along the said 51st parallel of north latitude
to the westerly boundary of the Province of British Columbia; thence generally southeasterly
along the westerly and southerly boundaries of the Province of British Columbia to the point
of commencement.




Schedule C


[en. B.C. Reg. 162/2008, s. (c).]





[Provisions of the


Health Authorities Act


, R.S.B.C. 1996,      c. 180, relevant to the enactment of this regulation: section 4]



