







B.C. Reg. 196/97

M244/97


Deposited June 17, 1997







This consolidation is current to December 5, 2023.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after December 5, 2023.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Securities Act


Securities Regulation

[Last amended July 12, 2021 by B.C. Reg. 204/2021]



Part 1 — Interpretation





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Securities Act

;



"MTN Program"

has the meaning ascribed to that term in National Instrument 44-102
Shelf Distributions
;



"PREP prospectus"

means a base PREP prospectus or a supplemented PREP prospectus as
those terms are defined in National Instrument 44-103
Post-Receipt Pricing
;


"Rules"
means the Securities Rules.


[am. B.C. Regs. 388/2000, s. 1; 416/2003, s. 1; 43/2008, s. 2 (a);
225/2009, s. 1.]




Part 2





Repealed




2-6


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 386/2003, s. 1 (a).]




Part 3 — Claims Under Section 15.1 of the Act





Definitions




7.1


In this Part:



"eligible applicant"

means a person who




(a)

suffered pecuniary loss as a direct result of misconduct that resulted
in an order for which the commission gave notice under section 15.1
(1) of the Act,




(b)

did not directly or indirectly engage in the misconduct that resulted
in the order, and




(c)

has not been denied a claim under section 7.4 (6);


"order"
means an order made under section 155.1 (b), 157 (1) (b) or 161 (1)
(g) of the Act.


[en. B.C. Reg. 91/2014, Sch. s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 45/2020, Sch. C, s.
1.]






Repealed




7.2


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 45/2020, Sch. C, s. 2.]






Claims application




7.3

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 45/2020, Sch. C, s. 3.]




(2)

If a person has made an application under section 15.1 of the Act and
the information provided in the application changes in a material
respect so that the information provided is false or misleading, the
person must report the change to the commission promptly.


[en. B.C. Reg. 91/2014, Sch. s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 45/2020, Sch. C, s.
3.]






Adjudication of claims




7.4

(1)


If the commission determines that an applicant is an eligible
applicant in respect of an order, the commission may make a payment to
the eligible applicant from money received from the order.




(2)

When determining the amount to be paid to an eligible applicant, the
commission must consider the following:




(a)

the amount of money received from the order;




(b)

the loss suffered by the eligible applicant;




(c)

the losses suffered by all eligible applicants;




(d)

any other information the commission considers appropriate in the
circumstances.




(3)

When determining an applicant's loss for the purposes of this section,
the commission must not include any amount claimed by the applicant in
respect of a loss of opportunity, including interest on any loss, and
must consider the following:




(a)

whether the applicant received or is entitled to receive compensation
from other sources for the loss arising from the misconduct that
resulted in the order;




(b)

whether the applicant benefitted from the misconduct that resulted in
the order;




(c)

the results of any hedging or other risk limitation transactions made
by the applicant.




(4)

The commission may prorate payments among eligible applicants if,
having considered the matters under subsection (2), the commission
determines that the money the commission received from the order is
insufficient to pay the claims of all eligible applicants.




(5)

A prorated payment made to an eligible applicant must be determined in
accordance with the following formula:





A × B

C








where


A
=

the amount of money the commission received under the order,



B
=

the loss suffered by the eligible applicant, and



C
=

the losses suffered by all eligible applicants.







(6)

The commission may deny an applicant's claim if the applicant




(a)

fails to comply with section 7.3 (2), or




(b)

makes a statement or provides information to the commission that, in a
material respect and at the time and in the light of the circumstances
in which it is made, is false or misleading, or omits facts from the
statement or information necessary to make that statement or
information not false or misleading.

[en. B.C. Reg. 91/2014, Sch. s. 1.]





Opportunity to be heard




7.5


Except for a decision to prorate payments under section 7.4 (4), the
commission must not deny all or part of a claim without giving the
applicant an opportunity to be heard.

[en. B.C. Reg. 91/2014, Sch. s. 1.]





Advance payments




7.6


The commission may make a payment to an eligible applicant, including
a partial or installment payment, before the period described in
section 15.1 (1.1) of the Act has expired.


[en. B.C. Reg. 91/2014, Sch. s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 45/2020, Sch. C, s.
4.]




Part 4 — Investigations and Audits





Application




8


The practices and procedures set out in this Part apply to every
investigation and audit conducted under Part 17 of the Act.






Personal service




9

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 45/2020, Sch. C, s. 5.]




(2)

A person summoned under section 144 of the Act must be paid the fees
and allowances for the person's attendance before the investigator to
which a witness summoned to attend before the Supreme Court is
entitled.

[am. B.C. Reg. 45/2020, Sch. C, s. 5.]





Form of summons or demand




10

(1)


A summons to a person to appear before an investigator under section
144 (1) (a) of the Act must be in the required form.




(2)

A demand for production of records and things under section 144 (1)
(c) of the Act must be in the required form.






Affidavit




11


The service of a summons, the payment or tender of fees and allowances
to a person summoned, the demand for production of records and things
or the service of a notice on a witness may be proved by an affidavit
in the required form.






Application to Supreme Court to enter premises and obtain information




12


An application for an order under section 143 (3) or 143.1 (5) of the
Act must be made in accordance with the Supreme Court Civil Rules.

[am. B.C. Regs. 166/2010; 45/2020, Sch. C. s. 6.]



Part 5 —





Repealed




13


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 45/2020, Sch. C, s. 7.]




Part 5.1 — Prescribed Self-regulatory Bodies





Prescribed self-regulatory bodies




13.1


For the purposes of section 163 (1.1) of the

Securities Act

, the following self-regulatory bodies are prescribed:




(a)

Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada;




(b)

Mutual Fund Dealers Association of Canada.


[en. B.C. Reg. 135/2018, s. (b); am. B.C. Reg. 45/2020, Sch. C, s. 9.]




Part 5.2 — Preservation Orders and Additional Collection Remedies





Registering interests — land title office




13.2

(1)


For the purposes of section 164.18 (1) of the Act, the prescribed form
is Form 15-905 set out in the Schedule to this regulation.




(2)

For the purposes of section 164.18 (1) and (4) (a) of the Act, the
following manners of filing are prescribed for filing a notice,
amendment, extension or cancellation:




(a)

mailing or delivering the notice, amendment, extension or cancellation
to the land title office;




(b)

transmitting a copy of the notice, amendment, extension or
cancellation by electronic means to the land title office.

[en. B.C. Reg. 204/2021, s. 1 (a).]



Part 6 — Reviews and Appeals





Application




14


This Part applies to a hearing required or permitted to be held under
the Act or the regulations other than a hearing held under
Part 17 of the Act.






Notice




15


In addition to any other person to whom notice is required to be
given, notice in writing of the time, place and purpose of a hearing
must be given to any person considered by the person presiding to be
directly affected by it.






Receiving evidence




16

(1)


All oral evidence received at the hearing may be taken down in writing
or preserved as the person presiding directs.




(2)

The oral evidence recorded, the documentary evidence and things
received in evidence form the record.






Representation by counsel




17


A person attending a hearing or submitting evidence at a hearing under
this Part may be represented by counsel.






Decision




18

(1)


After a hearing, if the decision made at it adversely affects the
right of a person to trade in securities, at the request of the person
affected, the person presiding must issue written reasons for the
decision.




(2)

The person presiding must give notice of every decision and
accompanying written reasons as soon as practicable to every person to
whom notice of the hearing was given and to every person who is, in
the opinion of the person presiding, directly affected by the
decision.






When hearing public




19

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), every hearing is open to the public.




(2)

If the person presiding considers that a public hearing would be
unduly prejudicial to a party or a witness and that to do so would not
be prejudicial to the public interest, the person presiding may order
that the public be excluded for all or part of the hearing.






Sufficiency of notice




20


Any notice required under this Part is sufficiently given if sent to
the required person in accordance with section 180 of the Act or
to an address directed by the person presiding.






Referral of question to commission




21

(1)


If the executive director is of the opinion that a material question
affecting the public interest or a novel question of policy or
interpretation is raised because of




(a)

an application made to the executive director,




(b)

a record filed with the executive director, or




(c)

a matter arising out of the exercise or performance by the executive
director of an authorized power or duty,


the executive director may refer the question to the commission for
determination.




(2)

If a question is referred under subsection (1), the executive director
must




(a)

state the question in writing, setting out the facts on which it is
based, and




(b)

file with the commission the written question together with additional
information the executive director considers relevant.




(3)

The commission, without delay, must send the material filed under
subsection (2) (b) to the person who made the application or who filed
the document out of which the question arose.




(4)

Notice of any hearing to be held by the commission under this section




(a)

must be given to all persons who the commission considers or who, in
the opinion of the executive director, are interested parties, and




(b)

is sufficiently given if posted on a publicly accessible website
maintained by the commission.




(5)

The commission must consider and determine a question referred to it
under this section by holding a hearing, and may remit any matter to
the executive director for a decision in accordance with its
determination.

[am. B.C. Reg. 386/2003, s. 1 (b).]



Part 7 — Fees





Interpretation




21.1

(1)


In section 22,

"management cease trade order"

means an order that prohibits or restricts trading in securities of a
reporting issuer by any of the following:




(a)

the chief executive officer of the reporting issuer or a person acting
in a similar capacity;




(b)

the chief financial officer of the reporting issuer or a person acting
in a similar capacity;




(c)

an officer or director of the reporting issuer or other person who
had, or might have had, access directly or indirectly to a material
fact or material change with respect to the reporting issuer that has
not been generally disclosed.




(2)

For the purposes of items 15 and 15.1 of section 22, if an applicant
files more than one application under those items, the applications
are considered to be a single application for the purpose of
determining the fee if




(a)

the commission or the executive director considers that the
applications relate to the same matter, and




(b)

in the case that the applications are not filed at the same time, the
applications are filed before a final decision is made with respect to
the first application that was filed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 258/2018, s. 1.]





Fees payable




22


Unless otherwise prescribed, for a matter described in Column 1 the
executive director must be paid the fee prescribed in Column 1 or
Column 2:





Item


Column 1


Column 2



1
(1)
(a)

Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c), for seeking or maintaining
registration in any of the following:






(i)
any category of dealer;
$2 500




(ii)
any category of adviser;
$1 500




(iii)
the category of investment fund manager.
$1 200



(b)

If a person is seeking or maintaining registration in more than
one category, only the highest applicable fee under paragraph
(a) is payable.





(c)

If a person is already registered and is seeking registration in
one or more additional categories, the fee is the greater of the
following:






(i)

the highest fee under paragraph (a) for the categories applied
for minus any fees already paid for maintaining registration
during the calendar year, and






(ii)
0.



(2)

For seeking or maintaining registration in one or more of the
following categories:

$350



(a)

dealing representative;





(b)

advising representative;





(c)

associate advising representative.




(3)

A fee for maintaining registration for a calendar year must be
paid on or before December 31 of the previous calendar year.




2 to 7

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 225/2009, s. 3.]




8

For each day that the financial statements of a registered
dealer, investment fund manager or adviser have not been filed
as required under National Instrument 31-103

Registration Requirements, Exemptions and Ongoing Registrant
Obligations

, unless the commission or executive director has exempted in
writing the registered dealer, investment fund manager or
adviser from the requirement to file financial statements

$100


9

(a)

Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c), for filing a preliminary
prospectus, a preliminary base shelf prospectus under National
Instrument 44-102
Shelf Distributions
, a preliminary base PREP prospectus under National Instrument
44-103
Post-Receipt Pricing
or a pro forma prospectus

$2 500



(b)

For filing a preliminary or pro forma prospectus for a mutual
fund

$1 500



(c)

For filing a preliminary exchange offering prospectus

$1 500


10

For filing a prospectus, the amount, if any, by which





(a)

0.025%, or





(b)

in the case of a money market fund, 0.01%






of the proceeds realized by the issuer or securityholder from
the distribution under the prospectus to purchasers in British
Columbia exceeds the aggregate of the fees paid under item 9,
which amount must be paid in accordance with sections 24 and 25




11

For filing an annual information form by an issuer other than a
mutual fund

$1 000


12

For filing an amendment to a preliminary prospectus, prospectus
or annual information form

$250


13

For filing a technical or engineering report with





(a)

a preliminary prospectus, pro forma prospectus, prospectus,
annual information form, amendment to a preliminary prospectus
or prospectus

$500



(b)

an application under section 171 of the Act for revocation or
variation of a decision in respect of the reactivation of a
dormant issuer

$500


14

For filing a notice by an issuer of its intention to offer
securities under section 2.1 of National Instrument 45-106
Prospectus and Registration Exemptions
of the Act, if the notice includes a rights offering memorandum
or circular

$500


15

For filing an application, other than an application to revoke,
revoke in part or vary an order made under section 161 or 164 of
the Act, with the commission or the executive director for a
decision under the Act, this regulation, the Rules, another
enactment or a policy statement, if no other fee for that filing
is prescribed

$4 500


15.1
(1)

For filing any of the following applications, unless an
application to which item 15 applies is also filed, in which
case no fee is payable under this subsection:


$1 000




(a)

an application to the commission or the executive director for a
decision to revoke, revoke in part or vary an order made under
section 164 of the Act if the order has been in effect for less
than 91 days;





(b)

an application for a decision under section 88 of the Act;





(c)

an application for a decision under National Instrument 31-102
National Registration Database
;





(d)

an application for a decision under National Instrument 33-109
Registration Information
;





(e)

an application for a decision under section 3.3, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7,
3.8, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, 3.14, 9.1 or 9.2 of National
Instrument 31-103

Registration Requirements, Exemptions and Ongoing Registrant
Obligations

;





(f)

an application under section 164 of the Act for a management
cease trade order




(2)

For filing an application for a decision under section 26 of
this regulation




15.2

For filing an application for recognition in respect of an
exchange

$40 000


15.3

For filing an application for an exemption from the requirement
to be recognized in respect of an exchange

$15 000


15.4

For filing an application for recognition in respect of a
clearing agency

$40 000


15.5

For filing an application for an exemption from the requirement
to be recognized in respect of a clearing agency

$15 000


15.6

For filing Form 21-101F2
Information Statement — Alternative Trading System
in respect of an alternative trading system if a Form 21-101F2
has not been previously filed with respect to that alternative
trading system

$25 000


15.7

For filing an application for recognition in respect of a trade
repository

$25 000


16

For filing a report




(1)
(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 225/2009, s. 7.]





(b)

pursuant to the terms of an order made under section 76 of the
Act, or





(c)

under National Instrument 45-106
Prospectus and Registration Exemptions
, the greater of






(i)
$200, or





(ii)

0.03% or, in the case of a money market fund, 0.01%, of the
proceeds realized by the issuer from the distribution of the
securities described in the report to purchasers in British
Columbia




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 225/2009, s. 7.]




17

For filing an annual financial statement by a reporting issuer,
as required under National Instrument 51-102
Continuous Disclosure Obligations
or National Instrument 81-106
Investment Fund Continuous Disclosure
, if the statement is filed





(a)

within the prescribed time period

$600



(b)

outside the prescribed time period

$800



(c)

outside the prescribed time period and the commission or the
executive director has ordered, in respect of the failure to
file, that trading in the securities of the issuer cease

$1 100


18

For filing an interim financial statement by a reporting issuer,
as required under National Instrument 51-102
Continuous Disclosure Obligations
or National Instrument 81-106
Investment Fund Continuous Disclosure
, if the statement is filed





(a)

within the prescribed time period

No fee



(b)

outside the prescribed time period

$200



(c)

outside the prescribed time period and the commission or the
executive director has ordered, in respect of the failure to
file, that trading in the securities of the issuer cease

$500


19

For filing a report required under section 87 of the Act, if the
statement is filed





(a)

within the prescribed time period

No fee



(b)

outside the prescribed time period

$50


20

For filing a take over bid circular or issuer bid circular

$4 500


21

For filing an application under section 171 of the Act for
revocation or variation of a decision in respect of the
reactivation of a dormant issuer

$2 500


22

For an on-site search of a paper file

$6


23

For a copy of a record in the public file of the commission, for
each page

$0.50


24

For the certification of a record





(a)

for the number of pages, up to and including 10, included in the
record

$10



(b)

for each additional page over 10 included in the record

$1


25

The fees and charges for an examination or investigation by a
person appointed under section 13 or 153 of the Act are an
amount equal to the amount paid by the commission for the
examination or investigation, not exceeding fees of $2 000
for each day of the examination or investigation plus
disbursements properly incurred for the examination or
investigation




26

The fees and charges for the costs of or related to a compliance
review under section 141.1, 141.2 or 141.3 of the Act are





(a)

$100 per hour for each person involved in the compliance review





(b)

disbursements properly incurred by the commission or the
executive director or the staff of either of them




27

The fees and charges for an investigation by a person appointed
under section 142 or 147 of the Act are an amount equal to the
amount paid by the commission or the minister for the
investigation, not exceeding fees of $2 000 for each day of the
investigation plus disbursements properly incurred for the
investigation




28

The fees and charges for the costs of or related to a hearing
are





(a)

$2 000 for each day or partial day of hearing





(b)

$100 per hour for each person for time spent by the commission
or the executive director or the staff of either of them





(c)

disbursements properly incurred by the commission or the
executive director or the staff of either of them





(d)

fees paid to an expert or witness, to a maximum of $600 per hour
for each person involved





(e)

disbursements properly incurred by an expert retained by the
commission





(f)

fees paid for legal services, to a maximum of $400 per hour for
each person involved





(g)

disbursements properly incurred in connection with the provision
of legal services to the commission





29 to 31


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 258/2018, s. 2 (g).]




32

For the following:

$1 400



(a)

submitting Form 31-103F2

Submission to Jurisdiction and Appointment of Agent for
Service

under section 8.18 (3) (e) or 8.26 (4) (f) of National
Instrument 31-103

Registration Requirements, Exemptions and Ongoing Registrant
Obligations

or under both of those sections if submitted at the same time





(b)

providing a notification under section 8.18 (5) or 8.26 (5) of
National Instrument 31-103

Registration Requirements, Exemptions and Ongoing Registrant
Obligations

or under both of those sections if the notifications are
provided at the same time




33

For a person that is a recognized exchange at any time during
the period between April 1 of the previous calendar year and
March 31 of the current calendar year, by April 30 of the
current calendar year

$20 000


34

For a person that is a recognized clearing agency at any time
during the period between April 1 of the previous calendar year
and March 31 of the current calendar year, by April 30 of the
current calendar year

$20 000


35

For a person that is an alternative trading system at any time
during the period between April 1 of the previous calendar year
and March 31 of the current calendar year, by April 30 of the
current calendar year

$5 000


36

For a trade repository that is recognized under the Act at any
time during the period between April 1 of the previous calendar
year and March 31 of the current calendar year, by April 30 of
the current calendar year

$15 000




[en. B.C. Reg. 416/2003, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 232/2006, Sch. s. 3;
43/2008, s. 2 (b); 225/2009, ss. 2 to 8; 238/2014, App. D, s. 1;
258/2018, s. 2.]






Repealed




23


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 225/2009, s. 9.]






Fee calculation and filing requirements relating to distributions




24


For the purposes of the fee payable under item 10 of the table in
section 22,




(a)

if the prospectus relates to securities that are not distributed
continuously, in circumstances where National Instrument 44-102
Shelf Distributions
does not apply, the issuer or securityholder must file




(i)

with the prospectus, an estimate of the proceeds that will be realized
from the distribution under the prospectus to purchasers in British
Columbia, accompanied by




(A)

if the executive director so requires, an advance of the prescribed
fee based on the estimate of the proceeds, or




(B)

in any other case, an undertaking to pay the prescribed fee not more
than 30 days after the completion of the distribution under the
prospectus, and




(ii)

not more than 30 days after the completion of the distribution under
the prospectus, a notice of the proceeds realized from the
distribution under the prospectus to purchasers in British Columbia
and, subject to section 25, the notice must be accompanied by the
prescribed fee,




(b)

if the prospectus relates to securities that are distributed
continuously, in circumstances where National Instrument 44-102
Shelf Distributions
does not apply, the issuer or securityholder must file a notice of the
proceeds realized from the distribution under the prospectus to
purchasers in British Columbia, accompanied by the prescribed fee, on
the date a new prospectus relating to the securities is filed,




(c)

if the prospectus relates to securities that are distributed under
National Instrument 44-102
Shelf Distributions
the issuer or securityholder must file




(i)

with the base shelf prospectus, an undertaking to pay the prescribed
fee




(A)

within 5 business days after the end of each month with respect to the
securities sold during that month, for securities distributed
continuously in circumstances other than through an MTN Program,




(B)

together with the monthly filing of pricing supplements, for
securities distributed continuously through an MTN Program, or




(C)

within 30 days after the completion of the offering of securities for
each tranche, for securities distributed on a delayed basis,




(ii)

a notice stating the proceeds realized in British Columbia accompanied
by the prescribed fee




(A)

not more than 5 business days after the end of each month with respect
to the securities sold during that month, for securities distributed
continuously in circumstances other than through an MTN Program,




(B)

together with the monthly filing of pricing supplements, for
securities distributed continuously through an MTN Program, or




(C)

within 30 days after the completion of the offering of securities for
each tranche, for securities distributed on a delayed basis, and




(iii)

a notice stating the proceeds realized in British Columbia,
accompanied by the required fee, if any, within 30 days after the
earlier of




(A)

the completion of all offerings of securities under the base shelf
prospectus, and




(B)

the date that is 25 months after the date of filing the base shelf
prospectus, or




(d)

if the prospectus relates to securities that are distributed under
National Instrument 44-103
Post-Receipt Pricing
, the issuer or securityholder must file




(i)

with the base PREP prospectus, an undertaking to pay the prescribed
fee within 30 days after the completion of the distribution under the
supplemented PREP prospectus, and




(ii)

within 30 days after the completion of the distribution under the
supplemented PREP prospectus, a notice stating the proceeds realized
in British Columbia accompanied by the required fee.


[en. B.C. Reg. 416/2003, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 43/2008, s. 2 (c);
225/2009, s. 10.]






Additional requirement relating to distributions




25


If an advance was paid as required under section 24 (a) (i) (A), the
notice filed under section 24 (a) (ii) must be accompanied by




(a)

the amount by which the prescribed fee exceeds the advance, or




(b)

a request for a refund of the amount by which the advance exceeds the
prescribed fee.

[en. B.C. Reg. 416/2003, s. 3.]





Discretionary fee reduction




26


If the commission or the executive director considers it to be in the
public interest, the commission or the executive director may order
that




(a)

either or both of items 22 and 23 of the table in section 22




(i)

be varied by reducing the fee payable, or




(ii)

do not apply


in respect of a person who is a representative of the media or any
class of persons who are representatives of the media, or




(b)

any or all of items 25 through 28 of the table in section 22




(i)

be varied by reducing the fees and charges payable, or




(ii)

do not apply.

[en. B.C. Reg. 416/2003, s. 3.]





Incomplete or incorrect filings




27


If a record is filed with the commission, the executive director or a
designated organization and the record has not been completed in
accordance with the Act or this regulation, the commission, the
executive director or the designated organization may return the
record to the person by whom it has been filed, and a refund of the
fee or any part of it paid upon the filing of the record must not be
made unless the commission, the executive director or the designated
organization otherwise directs.

[en. B.C. Reg. 416/2003, s. 3.]





Repealed




28


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 225/2009, s. 11.]






Members of the Mutual Fund Dealers Association




29


Until January 1, 2010, the fees prescribed for item 1 of the table in
section 22 do not apply to a person who is a member of the Mutual Fund
Dealers Association of Canada.

[en. B.C. Reg. 416/2003, s. 3.]



Schedule

[en. B.C. Reg. 204/2021, s. 1 (b).]


Form 15-905


(section 164.18 of the Securities Act)


Nature of interest:
charge



Notice of order/commencement of proceeding that may affect real
property or the whole or a portion of an interest in real property.



Legal description and parcel identifier no(s).:

.......................................................................................................................................................................

.......................................................................................................................................................................

.......................................................................................................................................................................

.......................................................................................................................................................................

.......................................................................................................................................................................

.......................................................................................................................................................................


Registered owner(s):

.......................................................................................................................................................................


Property address(es):

.......................................................................................................................................................................



British Columbia Securities Commission contact information:


.......................................................................................................................................................................

.......................................................................................................................................................................


..............................................................................


British Columbia Securities Commission

[signature of authorized person]



..............................................................................

Date


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Securities Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, s. 183.]



