







B.C. Reg. 89/97

O.C. 262/97


Deposited March 13, 1997

effective April 21, 1997






This consolidation is current to February 13, 2024.

See “Amendments Not in Force” and the


Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023

and


Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024

for

amendments effective after February 13, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Offence Act



Violation Ticket Administration

and Fines Regulation



[Last amended December 14, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 292/2023]






Interpretation




1


In this regulation:



"appearance notice"

means the appearance notice established by the Offence Act Forms
Regulation;



"police officer"

means




(a)

except in section 2 (3), a special provincial constable, a designated
constable, an officer, member or constable of the Provincial police
force, an officer, member or constable of a municipal police force in
the Province and a member of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, and




(b)

in section 2 (3),




(i)

a member, other than a civilian member, of the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police, and an officer or constable in a provincial or municipal
police force in Canada, and




(ii)

a police officer in another jurisdiction who has the same or similar
law enforcement powers and duties as a person described in
subparagraph (i).

[am. B.C. Regs. 7/2005; 2/2010, s. 1.]





Designation of enforcement officer




2

(1)


Every person in a class of persons referred to in Column 1 of Schedule
1 is designated as an enforcement officer and may issue




(a)

a ticket, other than an eTicket, for contravention of the provisions
of an enactment referred to in Column 2 of Schedule 1 opposite that
class of persons, unless the provision is also referred to in Column 3
opposite that class of persons, and




(b)

an appearance notice for contravention of the provisions of an
enactment referred to in Column 2 or 3 of Schedule 1 opposite that
class of persons.




(1.1)

Every person in a class of persons designated under subsection (1) and
referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 1.1 may, instead of issuing a
ticket under subsection (1) (a), issue an eTicket for contravention of
the provisions of an enactment referred to in Column 2 of Schedule 1.1
opposite that class of persons, unless the provision is also referred
to in Column 3 opposite that class of persons.




(2)

For the purposes of item 5 of Schedule 1, the superintendent of motor
vehicles or an officer of the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia may certify as a Road Safety Program Enforcement Officer a
person employed by a process serving company under contract with the
government or the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia who the
superintendent or an officer of the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia is satisfied




(a)

is a Canadian citizen or a landed immigrant,




(b)

is 19 years of age or older,




(c)

has not been convicted of an indictable offence,




(d)

has not been convicted of a criminal offence within the past 5 years,




(e)

is not currently charged with a criminal offence,




(f)

is not currently liable to pay a fine for an offence under the

Motor Vehicle Act

, the
Motor Vehicle Transport Act
(Canada) or the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

,




(g)

has not been prohibited or suspended from driving within the past 2
years under the

Criminal Code

or sections 89 to 100 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

, and




(h)

has a grade 10 education or its equivalent.




(3)

Every police officer is designated as an enforcement officer for the
purposes of serving violation tickets outside British Columbia under
section 14.1 of the

Offence Act

.


[am. B.C. Regs. 214/99, App. 2, s. 1; 335/2005, s. (a); 162/2007;
2/2010, s. 2; 367/2010, s. 1; 18/2018, App. 2, s. 1.]






Description of offence




3


For the purpose of sections 14 and 132 of the

Offence Act

, every word and phrase set out in Column 2 of Schedule 2, Schedule 3
or Schedule 4 to this regulation is authorized to be used on a
violation ticket to describe the offence of contravening the enactment
referred to in Column 1 opposite that word or phrase.

[am. B.C. Regs. 384/2003, s. 1; 593/2004, s. 1.]





Fines, victim surcharge levies and ticketed amounts




4

(1)


For the contravention of an enactment listed in Column 1 of Schedule
2,




(a)

Column 2 sets out the description of the offence for the purposes of
section 3,




(b)

Column 3 prescribes, for the purposes of sections 14 and 16 (1) of the

Offence Act

, the fine for the contravention,




(c)

Column 4 sets out the victim surcharge levy that must be paid with the
fine for that contravention, and




(d)

Column 5 sets out the ticketed amount for that contravention.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), for the contravention of section 12 (1) (a) or
(b) of the

Commercial Transport Act

, the fine prescribed for the purposes of sections 14 and 16 (1) of
the

Offence Act

and the corresponding victim surcharge levy that must be paid with
each fine are set out opposite each of those enactments in the third
column of Schedule 2.




(3)

This section does not apply to a provision of the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the Motor Vehicle Act Regulations.


[en. B.C. Reg. 384/2003, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 133/2019, App. 1, s. 1.]






Fines, etc. in MVA and MVA Regulations




5

(1)


This section applies to the provisions of the

Motor Vehicle Act

and the Motor Vehicle Act Regulations set out in Column 1 of Schedule
3.




(2)

For the contravention of a provision set out in Column 1 of Schedule
3,




(a)

Column 2 sets out the description of the offence for the purposes of
section 3,




(b)

Column 3A prescribes, for the purposes of sections 14 and 16 (1) of
the

Offence Act

, the fine if payment is made after the 30th day from the date of
service or mailing of the violation ticket,




(c)

Column 3B prescribes, for the purposes of sections 14 and 16 (1) of
the

Offence Act

, the fine if payment is made on or before the 30th day from the date
of service under section 14 (5) of the Act or mailing of the violation
ticket under section 14 (6) of the Act,




(d)

Column 4 sets out the victim surcharge levy that must be paid with the
fine for that contravention,




(e)

Column 5A sets out the ticketed amount for that contravention, if
payment is made after the 30th day from the date of service under
section 14 (5) of the Act or mailing of the violation ticket under
section 14 (6) of the Act, and




(f)

Column 5B sets out the ticketed amount for that contravention, if
payment is made on or before the 30th day from the date of service
under section 14 (5) of the Act or mailing of the violation ticket
under section 14 (6) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 384/2003, s. 3.]





Appearing and defending by video conference or telephone




5.1


The offences described in Column 2 of Schedule 3, and the offences in
relation to which that Schedule otherwise applies, are prescribed for
the purposes of section 15.2 (3) of the

Offence Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 138/2020, App.]





Fines for contraventions by young persons




5.2

(1)


In this section,
"young person"
has the same meaning as in section 1 of the

Youth Justice Act

.




(2)

Despite section 4 (1) (b), if a young person contravenes an enactment
referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2, the fine for that
contravention is the lesser of the following:




(a)

$1 000;




(b)

the amount set out in Column 3 of Schedule 2.




(3)

Despite section 5 (2) (b) and (c), if a young person contravenes an
enactment referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 3, the fine
for that contravention is the lesser of the following:




(a)

$1 000;




(b)

the amount set out in Column 3A or 3B, as applicable, of
Schedule 3.

[en. B.C. Reg. 109/2021.]





Transitional fines




6

(1)


For the purposes of Part 11 of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, the fines for offences against the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

and its regulations are those set out in Schedule 4.




(2)

For the contravention of an enactment listed in Column 1 of Schedule
4,




(a)

Column 2 sets out the description of the offence for the purposes of
section 3,




(b)

Column 3 prescribes, for the purposes of sections 14 and 16 (1) of the

Offence Act

, the fine for the contravention,




(c)

Column 4 sets out the victim surcharge levy that must be paid with the
fine for that contravention, and




(d)

Column 5 sets out the ticketed amount for that contravention.

[en. B.C. Reg. 593/2004, s. 2.]



Schedule 1


[en. B.C. Reg. 125/2005; am. B.C. Regs. 185/2005; 260/2005; 335/2005,
ss. (b) to (e); 125/2006, s. 1; 212/2006, s. (a); 328/2006, s. 1;
222/2007, s. 1; 63/2008, s. 1; 92/2008; 193/2008, s. 1; 44/2009, ss. 1
and 2; 64/2009, s. (b); 175/2009, s. 2 (a) and (b); 237/2009, s. 1;
290/2009, s. 1; 199/2010, ss. 1 and 2; 337/2010, Sch. 2, s. 1; 353/2010,
s. 3; 367/2010, s. 2; 11/2011, Sch., s. 1; 25/2011, s. (b) (i);
101/2012, App. 2, s. 1; 125/2012, App. 2, s. 1; 181/2012; 286/2012, Sch.
2, s. 1; 101/2013, App., s. 1; 193/2015, App. 6, s. 1; 223/2015, App. 2,
s. 1; 42/2016, s. 1; 126/2016, App. 2; 149/2016, App. 2, s. 1; 263/2016,
ss. 1 to 3; 308/2016, s. 1; 295/2016, ss. 1 to 3; 127/2017, App. 9, s.
1; 18/2018, App. 2, s. 2; 207/2018, s. 1; 278/2018, App. 2, s. 1;
218/2019, s. 1; 245/2019, s. 1; 40/2020, App. 2; 85/2020, s. 1; 86/2020,
s. 1; 174/2020, s. 1; 252/2020, s. 1; 258/2020, App. 2, s. 1; 1/2021,
App. 2, s. 1; 146/2021; 295/2021, Sch. 2, s. 1; 299/2021, s. 1;
308/2021, s. 1; 324/2021, s. 1; 228/2022; 191/2023, Sch. 2; 198/2023, s.
1; 40/2023, s. 1.]






COLUMN 1


COLUMN 2


COLUMN 3




Item


Enforcement Officer



Enactments for Which a Violation

Ticket, Other Than an eTicket, or

an Appearance Notice May

Be Issued




Enactments for Which an

Appearance Notice May Be

Issued but a Violation Ticket May

Not Be Issued











1A

Police Officer

[see also item 1B]


Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence, other than those provisions referred
to in Column 3:







(a) Commercial Transport Regulations, B.C. Reg. 30/78


Section 7.03 (1) (a) to (d) of the Commercial Transport
Regulations, B.C. Reg. 30/78






(b) and (c) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 263/2016, s. 1 (a).]






(c.01)
COVID-19 Related Measures Act






(c.02)
Access to Services (COVID-19) Act






(c.1)
Emergency Program Act
and regulations made under the
Emergency Program Act






(d)
Fish and Seafood Act







(e) Fish and Seafood Licensing Regulation







(f) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 263/2016, s. 1 (d).]







(g) Greater Vancouver Transit Conduct and Safety Regulation, B.C.
Reg. 87/99







(h)
Liquor Control and Licensing Act


Sections 8 (2) (a), 61 (2) (b) (v) and (4) and 79 (1) of the
Liquor Control and Licensing Act






(i)
Livestock Protection Act







(j) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 335/2005, s. (b).]







(k)
Motor Fuel Tax Act
and

regulations made under the
Motor Fuel Tax Act







(l)
Motor Vehicle Act
and

regulations made under the
Motor Vehicle Act


Sections 24 (6) (a), (b) and (c), 58 (1) and (2), 69 (1) to (3),
70 (1) (a) and (1.1), 74, 90.4 (1), 95 (1), 100 (1), 102, 122 (4),
224, 226 (1) and 239 (2) of the
Motor Vehicle Act
;

Sections 27.10 (4) and 37.54 (3) and (4) of the Motor Vehicle Act
Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58






(m)
Passenger Transportation Act

and regulations made under the

Passenger Transportation Act







(n) Transit Conduct and Safety Regulation, B.C. Reg. 377/85







(o)
Transport of Dangerous Goods Act







(p)
Transportation Act
and

regulations made under the
Transportation Act







(q) Transportation of Dangerous Goods Regulation of Canada,
SOR/2001-286 as adopted by the Transport of Dangerous Goods
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 203/85







(r)
Wildfire Act
and

regulations made under the
Wildfire Act







(s)
Wildlife Act
and regulations made under the
Wildlife Act


Sections 7 (1), 22, 24 (6), (7) and (14), 26 (1) (a), (b), (e),
(f) and (g), 27 (2), 28, 81, 82 (1) (b), (c) and (d), (3) and (4)
and 96 (1) of the
Wildlife Act
;

Section 2.08 (3) of B.C. Reg. 338/82, the Wildlife Act Commercial
Activities Regulation








1B

Police Officer

[see also item 1A]


The provisions, referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2 or 4, of the
following enactments:







(a)
Commercial Transport Act







(a.1)
Body Armour Control Act







(a.2) Body Armour Control Regulation







(a.3)

Armoured Vehicle and After-Market Compartment Control Act








(a.4) Armoured Vehicle and After-Market Compartment Control
Regulation







(a.5)
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act


Every provision of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence, other than
those provisions referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2






(a.6) Ecological Reserve Regulation


Section 6 (1) (a) and (b) and (2) (a) of the Ecological Reserve
Regulation






(b)
Environmental Management Act
and

regulations made under the
Environmental Management Act







(b.1) E-Substances Regulation, B.C. Reg. 186/2020







(c)
Firearm Act


Section 3 of the
Firearm Act






(d)
Forest Act







(e) Log Salvage Regulation for the Vancouver Log Salvage District,
B.C. Reg. 220/81







(f) Scaling Regulation, B.C. Reg. 446/94







(g) Timber Marking and Transportation Regulation, B.C. Reg. 253/97







(h)
Forest and Range Practices Act
and

regulations made under the
Forest and Range Practices Act







(i)
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
and

regulations made under the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act







(i.01)
Guide Dog and Service Dog Act







(i.1)
Integrated Pest Management Act







(i.2)
Metal Dealers and Recyclers Act







(i.3) Metal Dealers and Recyclers Regulation, B.C. Reg. 101/2012







(j)
Motor Dealer Act







(k) Motor Dealer Act Regulation, B.C. Reg. 447/78







(l)
Off-Road Vehicle Act
and regulations made under the
Off-Road Vehicle Act







(m) Park, Conservancy and Recreation Area Regulation, B.C. Reg.
180/90


Sections 3 and 15 of the Park, Conservancy and Recreation Area
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 180/90






(m.01)
Pill Press and Related Equipment Control Act







(m.1)
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act







(n) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 328/2006, s. 1 (b).]







(n.1)
Security Services Act







(n.2) Security Services Regulation







(o)
Safe Streets Act







(o.1)
Tobacco and Vapour Products Control Act







(o.2) Tobacco and Vapour Products Control Regulation, B.C. Reg.
232/2007







(p)
Trespass Act







(q)
Water Sustainability Act
and

regulations made under the
Water Sustainability Act


Sections 106 (2) (a) and 107 (1) (h) of the
Water Sustainability Act








2

A person employed by the Ministry of Transportation and
Infrastructure or the Ministry of Public Safety and Solicitor
General as


Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence, other than those provisions referred
to in Column 3:





(a) a Carrier Safety Inspector,

(a)
Commercial Transport Act
and regulations made under the
Commercial Transport Act






(b) a Commercial Transport Inspector,


(b) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 335/2005, s. (c).]






(c) a Dangerous Goods Inspector, or


(c)
Motor Fuel Tax Act
and regulations made under the
Motor Fuel Tax Act





(d) a Motor Vehicle Inspector

(d)
Motor Vehicle Act
and

regulations made under the
Motor Vehicle Act


Sections 24 (6) (a), (b) and (c), 58 (1) and (2), 68 (1) to (3),
69 (1) to (3), 70 (1) (a) and (1.1), 74, 90.4 (1), 95 (1), 100
(1), 102, 122 (4), 144 and 239 (2) of the
Motor Vehicle Act
;

Sections 27.10 (4) and 37.54 (3) and (4) of the Motor Vehicle Act
Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58






(e)
Passenger Transportation Act
and regulations made under the
Passenger Transportation Act







(f)
Transport of Dangerous Goods Act
and regulations made under the
Transport of Dangerous Goods Act







(g)
Transportation Act
and

regulations made under the
Transportation Act









2A

A person employed by the Ministry of Transportation and
Infrastructure as

(a) a Manager, Regional Transportation Management Centre, or

(b) a Director, Regional Transportation Management Centre


Section 146 (3) of the
Motor Vehicle Act









3

An inspector as defined in the
Transport of Dangerous Goods Act


Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence:







(a)
Transport of Dangerous Goods Act
and regulations made under the
Transport of Dangerous Goods Act









4

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 335/2005, s. (d).]










5

Road Safety Program Enforcement Officers, certified under section
2 (2) of this regulation


(a) Section 83.1 (2) of the
Motor Vehicle Act
in conjunction with sections 140, 146 (1), (3), (5) and (7), 147
(1) and (2) and 148 (1) of that Act







(b)
Motor Vehicle Act
sections 140, 146 (1), (3), (5) and (7), 147 (1) and (2) and 148
(1)







(c) Section 83.1 (2.1) of the
Motor Vehicle Act
in conjunction with sections 129 (1) and (5) (a) and 131 (1) (a)
and (2) (a) of that Act







(d)
Motor Vehicle Act
sections 129 (1) and (5) (a) and 131 (1) (a) and (2) (a)









6

A person employed by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
as

(a) a Driver Training Investigator, or

(b) a Manager of Driver Training Investigators


The provisions referred to in section 27.03 (1) of the Motor
Vehicle Act Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58


Section 27.10 (4) of the Motor Vehicle Act Regulations, B.C. Reg.
26/58








7A

A park ranger as defined in the
Park Act
[see also item 7B]


Sections 12 (2) and 13 of the
Environmental Management Act







Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence, other than those provisions referred
to in Column 3:







(a)
Liquor Control and Licensing Act


Sections 8 (2) (a), 61 (2) (b) (v) and (4) and 79 (1) of the
Liquor Control and Licensing Act






(b)
Motor Vehicle Act


Sections 24 (6) (a), (b) and (c), 58 (1) and (2), 68 (1) to (3),
69 (1) to (3), 70 (1) (a) and (1.1), 74, 90.4 (1), 95 (1), 100
(1), 102, 122 (4), 144, 224, 226 (1) and 239 (2) of the
Motor Vehicle Act






(c) regulations made under the
Motor Vehicle Act


Sections 27.10 (4) and 37.54 (3) and (4) of the Motor Vehicle Act
Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58








7B

A park ranger as defined in the
Park Act

[see also item 7A]


The provisions, referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2, of the
following enactments:







(a)
Firearm Act







(a.1)
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act


Every provision of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence, other than
those provisions referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2






(a.2) Ecological Reserve Regulation


Section 6 (1) (a) and (b) and (2) (a) of the Ecological Reserve
Regulation






(b)
Off-Road Vehicle Act
and regulations made under the
Off-Road Vehicle Act







(c) Park, Conservancy and Recreation Area Regulation, B.C. Reg.
180/90


Sections 3 and 15 of the Park, Conservancy and Recreation Area
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 180/90






(d)
Trespass Act







(e)
Wildlife Act
and regulations made under the
Wildlife Act


Sections 7 (1), 22, 24 (6), (7) and (14), 26 (1) (a), (b), (e),
(f) and (g), 27 (2), 28, 81, 82 (1) (b), (c) and (d), (3) and (4)
and 96 (1) of the
Wildlife Act
;

Section 2.08 (3) of the Wildlife Act Commercial Activities
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 338/82








8

A park warden appointed under the
National Parks Act
(Canada)


Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence, other than those provisions referred
to in Column 3:







(a)
Liquor Control and Licensing Act


Sections 8 (2) (a), 61 (2) (b) (v) and (4) and 79 (1) of the
Liquor Control and Licensing Act






(b)
Motor Vehicle Act
and

the regulations made under the
Motor Vehicle Act


Sections 24 (6) (a), (b) and (c), 58 (1) and (2), 68 (1) to (3),
69 (1) to (3), 70 (1) (a) and (1.1), 74, 90.4 (1), 95 (1), 100
(1), 102, 122 (4), 144, 224 and 226 (1) of the
Motor Vehicle Act
; Sections 27.10 (4) and 37.54 (3) and (4) of the Motor Vehicle
Act Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58






The provisions of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act
referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2


Every provision of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence, other than
those provisions referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2








9A

A conservation officer as defined in the
Environmental Management Act

[see also item 9B]


Sections 44 (6), 73 (1), 74 (1) and 76 (2) of the
Liquor Control and Licensing Act







Sections 13, 24, 33, 70, 71, 73, 84, 123, 177 and 204 of the
Motor Vehicle Act


Sections 24 (6) and 70 (1) (a) and (1.1) of the
Motor Vehicle Act






Sections 52 (1) (a) and (b), 53 (1) and (3), 63 (1) and (3), 65
(1) (a) and (b) and (2), 67, 73 (1) and (2), 74 (1), 78 (1) and 81
(1) (a) and (b) of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act


Section 102 (4) of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act






Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence:







(a)
Transport of Dangerous Goods Act
and

regulations made under the
Transport of Dangerous Goods Act







(b)
COVID-19 Related Measures Act







(c)
Emergency Program Act
and regulations made under the
Emergency Program Act









9B

A conservation officer as defined in the
Environmental Management Act

[see also item 9A]


The provisions, referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2 or 4, of the
following enactments:







(a)
Environmental Management Act
and

regulations made under the
Environmental Management Act







(a.1)
Animal Health Act
and regulations made under the
Animal Health Act







(a.2) Ecological Reserve Regulation


Section 6 (1) (a) and (b) and (2) (a) of the Ecological Reserve
Regulation






(b)
Firearm Act


Section 3 of the
Firearm Act






(c)
Forest and Range Practices Act
and

regulations made under the
Forest and Range Practices Act







(d)
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
and

regulations made under the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act







(d.1)
Integrated Pest Management Act







(e)
Off-Road Vehicle Act
and regulations made under the
Off-Road Vehicle Act







(f) Park, Conservancy and Recreation Area Regulation, B.C. Reg.
180/90


Sections 3 and 15 of the Park, Conservancy and Recreation Area
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 180/90






(g) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 328/2006, s. 1 (d).]







(g.1)
Tobacco and Vapour Products Control Act







(g.2) Tobacco and Vapour Products Control Regulation, B.C. Reg.
232/2007







(h)
Trespass Act







(i)
Water Sustainability Act
and

regulations made under the
Water Sustainability Act


Sections 106 (2) (a) and 107 (1) (h) of the
Water Sustainability Act






(j)
Wildfire Act
and

regulations made under the
Wildfire Act







(k)
Wildlife Act
and

regulations made under the
Wildlife Act


Sections 7 (1), 22, 24 (6), (7) and (14), 26 (1) (a), (b), (e),
(f) and (g), 27 (2), 28, 81, 82 (1) (b), (c) and (d), (3) and (4)
and 96 (1) of the
Wildlife Act
;

Section 2.08 (3) of the Wildlife Act Commercial Activities
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 338/82








10

Persons who are inspectors under the
Fish and Seafood Act


Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence:






(a) and (b) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 263/2016, s. 2 (a).]


(a) and (b) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 263/2016, s. 2 (c).]







(c)
Fish and Seafood Act







(d) Fish and Seafood Licensing Regulation







(e) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 263/2016, s. 2 (f).]









11

A person designated as a forest officer under section 1 of the
Forest Act


Sections 12 (2) and 13 of the
Environmental Management Act







The provisions, referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2, of the
following enactments:







(a)
Forest Act







(b) Log Salvage Regulation for the Vancouver Log Salvage District,
B.C. Reg. 220/81







(c) Scaling Regulation, B.C. Reg. 446/94







(d) Timber Marking and Transportation Regulation, B.C. Reg. 253/97









12

A person designated as an official under section 1 of the

(a)
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
,

(b)
Forest and Range Practices Act
, or

(c)
Wildfire Act


Sections 12 (2) and 13 of the
Environmental Management Act

The provisions, referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2 or 4, of the
following enactments:

(a)
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
and regulations made under the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

(b)
Forest and Range Practices Act
and

regulations made under the
Forest and Range Practices Act

(c)
Wildfire Act
and regulations made under the
Wildfire Act









13

Inspectors appointed under section 30 of the
Security Services Act


The provisions, referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2, of the
following enactments:


(a)
Body Armour Control Act
and the Body Armour Control Regulation


(b)
Guide Dog and Service Dog Act


(c)
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act


(d)
Security Services Act
and the Security Services Regulation









14

A constable appointed under section 255 of the
Railway Act


Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence, other than those provisions referred
to in Column 3:







(a)
Liquor Control and Licensing Act


Sections 8 (2) (a), 61 (2) (b) (v) and (4) and 79 (1) of the
Liquor Control and Licensing Act






(b)
Motor Vehicle Act
and

regulations made under the
Motor Vehicle Act


Sections 24 (6) (a), (b) and (c), 58 (1) and (2), 68 (1) to (3),
69 (1) to (3), 70 (1) (a) and (1.1), 74, 90.4 (1), 95 (1), 100
(1), 102, 122 (4), 144, 224, 226 (1) and 239 (2) of the
Motor Vehicle Act
;

Sections 27.10 (4) and 37.54 (3) and (4) of the Motor Vehicle Act
Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58








15

A police constable appointed under section 108 of the
Canada Marine Act


Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence, other than those provisions referred
to in Column 3:







(a)
Motor Vehicle Act
and

regulations made under the
Motor Vehicle Act


Sections 24 (6) (a), (b) and (c), 58 (1) and (2), 68 (1) to (3),
69 (1) to (3), 70 (1) (a) and (1.1), 74, 90.4 (1), 95 (1), 100
(1), 102, 122 (4), 144, 224, 226 (1) and 239 (2) of the
Motor Vehicle Act
;

Sections 27.10 (4) and 37.54 (3) and (4) of the Motor Vehicle Act
Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58








16

Members of the Canadian forces while employed at defence
establishments on duties that the Governor in Council, in
regulations made under the
National Defence Act
(Canada), has prescribed to be of such a kind as to necessitate
that the members performing them have the powers of peace officers


The provisions of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act
referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2


Every provision of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence, other than
those provisions referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2





Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence, other than those provisions referred
to in Column 3:





(a)
Liquor Control and Licensing Act


Sections 8 (2) (a), 61 (2) (b) (v) and (4) and 79 (1) of the
Liquor Control and Licensing Act




(b)
Motor Vehicle Act
and

regulations made under the
Motor Vehicle Act


Sections 24 (6) (a), (b) and (c), 58 (1) and (2), 68 (1) to (3),
69 (1) to (3), 70 (1) (a) and (1.1), 74, 90.4 (1), 95 (1), 100
(1), 102, 122 (4), 144, 224, 226 (1) and 239 (2) of the
Motor Vehicle Act
;

Sections 27.10 (4) and 37.54 (3) and (4) of the Motor Vehicle Act
Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58








17

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 25/2011, s. (b) (i).]








18

Registrar of Motor Dealers, or a person authorized by the
registrar as defined in the
Motor Dealer Act


The provisions, referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2, of the
following enactments:

(a)
Motor Dealer Act

(b) Motor Dealer Act Regulation, B.C. Reg. 447/78









19

A store manager of a government liquor store established under
section 18 (1) (a) of the
Liquor Distribution Act


Section 78 (2) of the
Liquor Control and Licensing Act









20

A health officer as defined in the
Public Health Act


The provisions, referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2, of the
following enactments:

(a)
Public Health Act

(a.1) E-Substances Regulation, B.C. Reg. 186/2020

(b) Food Premises Regulation, B.C. Reg. 210/99

(c) Industrial Camps Health Regulation, B.C. Reg. 427/83

(d) Sewerage System Regulation B.C. Reg. 326/2004

(e) Public Health Act Transitional Regulation, B.C. Reg. 51/2009

(f) Public Health Impediments Regulation, B.C. Reg. 50/2009

(g) Regulated Activities Regulation, B.C. Reg. 161/2011









21

Persons designated by the minister as enforcement officers under
section 3 (1) of the
Tobacco and Vapour Products Control Act


Sections 61 (a), 62, 63 (1) and (3), 64 (1) and (3), 66 (a) and
(b), 67 and 73 (1) of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act







The provisions, referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2, of the
following enactments:

(a)
Tobacco and Vapour Products Control Act

(b) Tobacco and Vapour Products Control Regulation, B.C. Reg.
232/2007

(c) E-Substances Regulation, B.C. Reg. 186/2020









22

Persons designated by the general manager as investigators under
section 81 (1) of the
Gaming Control Act


The provisions, referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2, of the
Gaming Control Act







Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence:

(a)
COVID-19 Related Measures Act







(b)
Emergency Program Act
and regulations made under the
Emergency Program Act









23

An inspector as defined in section 5 (1) of the
Passenger Transportation Act


Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence:

(a) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 335/2005, s. (e).]

(b)
Passenger Transportation Act

and regulations made under the

Passenger Transportation Act









24

A health officer as defined in the
Public Health Act


Sections 7, 8, 9, 11, 14, 23, 25 and 26 of the
Drinking Water Protection Act

Sections 5 and 8 of the Drinking Water Protection Regulation









25

An inspector as defined in the
Food Safety Act


The provisions, referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2, of the Meat
Inspection Regulation, B.C. Reg. 349/2004


Every provision of the
Food Safety Act
and the regulations made under that Act, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence, other than the provisions referred
to in Column 2








26

General manager appointed under section 3 of the
Liquor Control and Licensing Act


Sections 60 (1) to (3), 61 (2) (b) (i) and (ii), 75, 77 (1) and 78
(1) to (3) of the
Liquor Control and Licensing Act







Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence:

(a)
COVID-19 Related Measures Act







(b)
Emergency Program Act
and regulations made under the
Emergency Program Act









26A

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 174/2020, s. 1 (c).]








26B

A person who is authorized under section 5 of the
Liquor Control and Licensing Act
to exercise the general manager's powers and duties under
section 13 or 42 of that Act


Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence:

(a)
COVID-19 Related Measures Act

(b)
Emergency Program Act
and regulations made under the
Emergency Program Act









27

Inspector appointed under section 13 of the
Metal Dealers and Recyclers Act


The provisions, referred to in

Column 1 of Schedule 2, of the following enactments:

(a)
Metal Dealers and Recyclers Act

(b) Metal Dealers and Recyclers Regulation, B.C. Reg. 101/2012









28A

A natural resource officer as defined in the
Natural Resource Compliance Act

[see also item 28B]


Sections 6 (2) to (4), 12 (2) and 13 of the
Environmental Management Act







Section 4 of the
Fish and Seafood Act







The provisions, referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2, of the
following enactments:







(a) Open Burning Smoke Control Regulation, B.C. Reg. 152/2019







(b) Fish and Seafood Licensing Regulation







(c) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 263/2016, s. 3 (c).]







(d)
Forest Act







(e) Log Salvage Regulation for the Vancouver Log Salvage District,
B.C. Reg. 220/81







(f) Scaling Regulation, B.C. Reg. 446/94







(g) Timber Marking and Transportation Regulation, B.C. Reg. 253/97







(h)
Forest and Range Practices Act
and regulations made under the
Forest and Range Practices Act







(i)
Wildfire Act
and regulations made under the
Wildfire Act









28B

A natural resource officer as defined in the
Natural Resource Compliance Act

[see also item 28A]


Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence, other than those provisions referred
to in Column 3:







(a)
Off-Road Vehicle Act
and regulations made under the
Off-Road Vehicle Act







(b) Park, Conservancy and Recreation Area Regulation, B.C. Reg.
180/90


Sections 3 and 15 of the Park, Conservancy and Recreation Area
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 180/90






(c)
Water Sustainability Act
and regulations made under the
Water Sustainability Act


Sections 106 (2) (a) and 107 (1) (h) of the
Water Sustainability Act






(d)
Wildlife Act
and regulations made under the
Wildlife Act


Sections 7 (1), 22, 24 (6), (7) and (14), 26 (1) (a), (b), (e),
(f) and (g), 27 (2), 28, 81, 82 (1) (b), (c) and (d), (3) and (4)
and 96 (1) of the
Wildlife Act
;

Section 2.08 (3) of the Wildlife Act Commercial Activities
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 338/82








29

A person designated as an inspector under section 27 (1) of the
Food and Agricultural Products Classification Act


Section 9 (a), (b) and (c) of the
Food and Agricultural Products Classification Act









30

General manager appointed under section 4 of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act


Sections 48 (a) and (b), 49 (2) (a) to (c), 69 (1) and (2), 70 (2)
(a) and (7) (a), 75 and 79 of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act







Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence:

(a)
COVID-19 Related Measures Act







(b)
Emergency Program Act
and regulations made under the
Emergency Program Act









31

Director appointed under section 7 of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act


Sections 15, 17, 61 (a), 62, 63 (1) and (3), 64 (1) and (3), 66
(a) and (b), 67, 69 (1) to (3), 70 (2) (a), (5) and (7) (a),
73 (1) and (2), 75, 78 (1) and 79 of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act







Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence:

(a)
COVID-19 Related Measures Act







(b)
Emergency Program Act
and regulations made under the
Emergency Program Act









32

A store manager of a government cannabis store as defined in
section 1 of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act


Sections 67 and 70 (7) (c) of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act









32A and 32B

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 174/2020, s. 1 (c).]








32C

A person who is authorized under section 5 of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act
to exercise the general manager's powers and duties under
section 23 or 84 of that Act


Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence:

(a)
COVID-19 Related Measures Act

(b)
Emergency Program Act
and regulations made under the
Emergency Program Act









32D

A person who is authorized under section 8 of the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act
to exercise the director's powers and duties under section 89
of that Act


Every provision of the following enactments, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence:

(a)
COVID-19 Related Measures Act

(b)
Emergency Program Act
and regulations made under the
Emergency Program Act









33

A person appointed under section 16 of the
Pill Press and Related Equipment Control Act
as an inspector


Pill Press and Related Equipment Control Act









34

A person authorized under section 17 of the
Pill Press and Related Equipment Control Act
to exercise powers or perform duties as if the person were an
inspector


Pill Press and Related Equipment Control Act









35

Compliance and enforcement officer means an individual appointed
under section 49 (1) of the
Environmental Assessment Act


The provisions, referred to in Column 1 of Schedule 2, of the
Environmental Assessment Act









36 and 37

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 174/2020, s. 1 (c).]








38

An enforcement officer of the South Coast British Columbia
Transportation Authority Police Service Designated Law Enforcement
Unit


Every provision of the Greater Vancouver Transit Conduct and
Safety Regulation, B.C. Reg. 87/99, the contravention of
which constitutes an offence






Schedule 1.1


[en. B.C. Reg. 18/2018, App. 2, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 308/2021, s. 2;
40/2023, s. 2.]






COLUMN 1


COLUMN 2


COLUMN 3




Item



Enforcement Officer

Designated Under

Section 2 (1) of

this Regulation




Enactments for Which an

eTicket May Be Issued




Provisions of Enactments for

Which eTickets May Not Be Issued











1
Police Officer

Motor Vehicle Act
and Motor Vehicle Act Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58


Sections 24 (6) (a), (b) and (c), 58 (1)
and (2), 69 (1) to (3), 70 (1) (a)
and (1.1), 74, 83.1 (2) and (2.1), 90.4 (1),
95 (1), 100 (1), 102, 122 (4), 224, 226 (1)
and 239 (2) of the
Motor Vehicle Act
; Sections 27.10 (4) and 37.54 (3) and (4) of the Motor Vehicle
Act Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58











Schedule 2


[en. B.C. Reg. 214/97, App. 1, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 215/97; 216/97;
275/97; 333/97, s. 2; 368/97, App. 2, ss. 2 and 3 and App. 4, s. 2;
68/98; 241/98; 316/98, s. 2; 380/98, s. 4; 411/98; 477/98; 92/99, s. 2;
160/99, s. 2; 214/99, App. 2, s. 3; 419/99, s. 3; 79/2000; 244/2000, s.
(b); 321/2000; 376/2000, s. 2; 188/2001; 306/2001; 81/2002; 226/2002, s.
2; 6/2003; 300/2003; 396/2003, s. 2; 411/2003; 412/2003; 384/2003, s. 4;
22/2004, s. 2; 329/2004, s. 2; 368/2004, s. 2; 369/2004, s. 2; 389/2004,
s. 4; 447/2004, s. 9; 500/2004; 534/2004, s. 3; 593/2004, s. 4;
594/2004, ss. 1 to 3; 8/2005; 19/2005, s. 2; 125/2005, App., s. 1;
126/2005, ss. 2 and 3; 127/2005; 128/2005; 261/2005; 334/2005; 335/2005,
s. (f); 70/2006; 105/2006; 125/2006, s. 2; 212/2006, s. (b); 283/2006;
328/2006, s. 2; 222/2007, s. 1; 223/2007; 261/2007; 383/2007; 14/2008,
s. 2; 63/2008, ss. 2 and 3; 193/2008, ss. 2 and 3; 321/2008; 44/2009,
ss. 3 and 4; 83/2009; 237/2009, s. 2; 290/2009, s. 2; 13/2010; 14/2010;
103/2010; 199/2010, ss. 3 and 4; 209/2010, s. 3; 307/2010; 337/2010,
Sch. 2, s. 2; 11/2011, s. 2; 18/2011; 19/2011; 25/2011, s. (b) (ii);
105/2011, s. 1; 177/2011; 216/2011, s. 2; 39/2012, s. 1; 68/2012;
101/2012, App. 2, s. 2; 125/2012, App. 2, s. 2; 180/2012; 260/2012;
283/2012, s. (b); 286/2012, Sch. 2, s. 2; 39/2013, App., s. 1; 101/2013,
App., s. 2; 115/2015, s. (c); 193/2015, App. 6, s. 2; 223/2015, App. 2,
s. 2; 42/2016, s. 2; 67/2016; 149/2016, App. 2, ss. 2 to 10; 167/2016,
Sch. 2; 200/2016, App. B; 219/2016; 263/2016, ss. 4 to 7; 308/2016, s.
2; 295/2016, s. 4; 17/2017, App., ss. 1 and 2; 74/2017, App. 7;
110/2017, App. 2; 127/2017, App. 9, ss. 2 and 3; 58/2018, App. 2;
52/2018, Sch. 6; 193/2018, Sch. 1; 207/2018, s. 2; 210/2018, App. 2;
257/2018; 278/2018, App. 2, s. 2; 21/2019, App. 2; 133/2019, App. 1, s.
2; 162/2019; 218/2019, s. 2; 37/2020, App. 2; 68/2020; 85/2020, s. 2;
86/2020, s. 2; 174/2020, s. 2; 219/2020, App. 2; 252/2020, s. 2;
258/2020, App. 2, s. 2; 269/2020, App. 2; 271/2020, App. 2; 1/2021, App.
2, ss. 2 and 3; 24/2021; 92/2021; 113/2021; 120/2021; 138/2021;
166/2021; 213/2021, App. 2; 285/2021; 295/2021, Sch. 2, s. 2 and Sch. 4;
299/2021, s. 2; 324/2021, s. 2; 335/2021; 12/2022, s. (b); 198/2023, s.
2; 193/2023; 292/2023, Sch. A.]





1


2


3


4


5




Provision


Contravention


Fine



Victim

Surcharge

Levy




Ticketed

Amount












Access to Services (COVID-19) Act




section 2 (1) (a)
Impede access or egress
$2 000
$300
$2 300



section 2 (1) (b)
Disrupt services
$2 000
$300
$2 300



section 2 (1) (c)
Intimidate or cause concern
$2 000
$300
$2 300



section 2 (2)

Gathering that impedes access or egress

$2 000
$300
$2 300



section 2 (2)
Gathering that disrupts services
$2 000
$300
$2 300



section 2 (2)

Gathering that intimidates or causes concern

$2 000
$300
$2 300








Animal Health Act





section 52 as it relates

to General Order

1-2020 made under

section 41


Fail to comply with General Order 1-2020

$350
$53
$403



section 81 (1) (d)
Fail to keep or produce records
$350
$53
$403



section 81 (1) (e)

Fail to make reports and records, take samples or do other
required things

$350
$53
$403








Fur Farm Regulation, B.C. Reg. 8/2015




section 2 (2)

Unlawful engagement in fur farming

$500
$75
$575



section 2 (2.1)
Engage in fur farming of mink
$500
$75
$575



section 2.1

Keep or deal with mink pelts without licence

$500
$75
$575



section 4.3 (2)

Keep more mink pelts than permitted

$500
$75
$575









Armoured Vehicle and After-Market Compartment Control Act





section 2 (2)

Operate armoured vehicle without having valid armoured vehicle
permit

$250
$38
$288



section 6 (a)

Fail to carry armoured vehicle permit when operating armoured
vehicle

$100
$15
$115



section 6 (b)

Fail to produce armoured vehicle permit on request of peace
officer

$100
$15
$115



section 6 (c) (i)

Fail to report theft or loss of armoured vehicle permit

$100
$15
$115



section 6 (c) (ii)

Fail to report change in employment

$100
$15
$115



section 6 (c) (iii)

Fail to report change in circumstances

$100
$15
$115



section 6 (c) (iv)

Fail to report change in residential address

$50
$8
$58



section 6 (c) (v)

Fail to report criminal charge or conviction

$250
$38
$288



section 6 (d)

Fail to surrender armoured vehicle permit at end of term

$100
$15
$115



section 6 (e) (ii)

Fail to comply with terms and conditions imposed by the registrar
on the armoured vehicle permit

$100
$15
$115



section 6 (f)

Allow another person to use own armoured vehicle permit

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (1)

Owns, operates or uses a vehicle containing an after-market
compartment

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (2)

Fail to report the installation of an after-market compartment in
a vehicle

$500
$75
$575



section 8 (3)

Fail to surrender armoured vehicle permit when registrar has
cancelled or suspended permit

$250
$38
$288



section 9 (3) (a)

Failure to surrender armoured vehicle permit on receipt of notice
under section 9 (2)

$250
$38
$288



section 9 (3) (b)

Failure to cease operating an armoured vehicle on receipt of
notice under section 9 (2)

$500
$75
$575



section 12 (2)

Supply false or misleading information

$500
$75
$575



section 12 (4) (a)
Obstruct peace officer
$500
$75
$575



section 12 (4) (b)
Obstruct inspector
$500
$75
$575



section 12 (5)

Use armoured vehicle permit issued to another person

$500
$75
$575



section 12 (6) (a)

Produce cancelled armoured vehicle permit as valid

$500
$75
$575



section 12 (6) (b)

Produce suspended armoured vehicle permit as valid

$500
$75
$575








Body Armour Control Act




section 2 (2)

Possess body armour without valid body armour permit

$250
$38
$288



section 3

Fail to sell, destroy or return body armour at end of exemption

$250
$38
$288



section 7 (a)

Fail to carry body armour permit when possessing body armour

$100
$15
$115



section 7 (b)

Fail to produce body armour permit on request of peace officer or
inspector

$100
$15
$115



section 7 (c) (i)

Fail to report theft of body armour permit

$100
$15
$115



section 7 (c) (ii)

Fail to report change in employment

$100
$15
$115



section 7 (c) (iii)

Fail to report change in residential address

$50
$8
$58



section 7 (c) (iv)

Fail to report criminal charge or conviction

$250
$38
$288



section 7 (d) (i)

Fail to surrender body armour permit at end of term

$100
$15
$115



section 7 (d) (ii)

Fail to provide evidence of sale, destruction or return of body
armour at end of permit term

$250
$38
$288



section 7 (e) (ii)

Fail to comply with terms and conditions imposed by registrar on
body armour permit

$100
$15
$115



section 7 (f)

Allow another person to use own body armour permit

$500
$75
$575



section 8 (1)

Sell body armour with neither a valid security business licence
nor a valid security worker licence

$500
$75
$575



section 8 (2)

Sell body armour to a person who neither holds a valid body armour
permit nor is exempt from that requirement

$500
$75
$575



section 9 (3) (a)

Fail to surrender body armour permit when cancelled by registrar

$250
$38
$288



section 9 (3) (b)

Fail to provide evidence of sale, destruction or return of body
armour when permit cancelled

$250
$38
$288



section 9 (4)

Fail to surrender body armour permit and body armour when permit
suspended

$250
$38
$288



section 10 (3)

Fail to surrender body armour under summary action notice

$250
$38
$288



section 13 (3)

Supply false or misleading information

$500
$75
$575



section 13 (5)

Obstruct inspector or peace officer

$500
$75
$575



section 13 (6)

Use body armour permit issued to another person

$500
$75
$575








Body Armour Control Regulation, B.C. Reg. 203/2010




section 4 (3)

Fail to produce evidence of exemption on request

$100
$15
$115








British Columbia Transit Act
: Transit Conduct and Safety Regulation, B.C. Reg. 377/85




section 3 (a)
Fail to pay fare
$150
$23
$173



section 3 (b)
Fail to present proof of payment
$150
$23
$173



section 4 (1) (a)
Fail to pay fare
$150
$23
$173



section 4 (1) (b)
Fail to possess proof of payment
$150
$23
$173



section 4 (2)
Fail to present proof of payment
$150
$23
$173



section 5 (2)
Improper use of proof of payment
$150
$23
$173



section 7 (a)

Illegally park vehicle on transit property

$50
$8
$58



section 7 (a)

Illegally operate vehicle on transit property

$50
$8
$58



section 7 (b)
Illegally enter tracks
$75
$11
$86



section 7 (b)
Illegally enter dock
$75
$11
$86



section 7 (b)
Illegally enter bridge
$75
$11
$86



section 7 (b)
Illegally enter guideway
$75
$11
$86



section 7 (b)
Illegally enter tunnel
$75
$11
$86



section 7 (b)
Illegally enter road
$75
$11
$86



section 7 (b)
Illegally enter right of way
$75
$11
$86



section 7 (c)

Illegally go on or through transit property

$75
$11
$86



section 8 (1)
Improper use of alarm
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (1)
Improper use of emergency device
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (2) (a)

Disobey posted rules after using emergency device

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (2) (a)

Disobey sign after using emergency device

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (2) (b)

Use emergency device — fail to report

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (a)
Place object (obstacle) on tracks
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (a)
Place object (obstacle) on dock
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (a)
Place object (obstacle) on bridge
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (a)

Place object (obstacle) on guideway

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (a)
Place object (obstacle) in tunnel
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (a)
Place object (obstacle) on road
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (a)

Place object (obstacle) on right of way

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (b)
Damage equipment on vehicle
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (b)
Damage equipment on property
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (b)
Tamper with equipment on vehicle
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (b)
Tamper with equipment on property
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (b)
Remove equipment on vehicle
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (b)
Remove equipment on property
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (c)
Prevent operation of vehicle
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (c)

Interfere with operation of vehicle

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (d)

Improperly occupy place in vehicle

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (e)
Impede employee operating vehicle
$100
$15
$115



section 9 (2)
Fail to obey refusal of access
$100
$15
$115



section 9 (3)
Fail to obey order to leave
$100
$15
$115








Cannabis Control and Licensing Act




section 15
Unlawful sale of cannabis
$500
$75
$575



section 17
Unlawful supply of cannabis
$500
$75
$575



section 48 (a)

Licensee selling cannabis product by self service display

$500
$75
$575



section 48 (b)

Licensee selling cannabis product by dispensing device

$500
$75
$575



section 49 (2) (a)

Licensee or licensee's employee selling cannabis to intoxicated
person

$200
$30
$230



section 49 (2) (b)

Licensee or licensee's employee allowing intoxicated person in
establishment

$200
$30
$230



section 49 (2) (c)

Licensee or licensee's employee allowing violent or disorderly
conduct in establishment

$200
$30
$230



section 52 (1) (a)

Possess more than 30 g of dried cannabis in public place

$200
$30
$230



section 52 (1) (b)

Possess more than the equivalent of 30 g of dried cannabis in
public place

$200
$30
$230



section 53 (1)

Possess more than 4 cannabis plants in a public place

$200
$30
$230



section 53 (3)

Possess budding or flowering cannabis plants in a public place

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (3)

Possess at one location more than the maximum allowable amount of
cannabis

$200
$30
$230



section 56 (a)

Grow non-medical cannabis at dwelling house where grower does not
ordinarily reside

$200
$30
$230



section 56 (b) (i)

Grow non-medical cannabis at dwelling house licensed to provide
specified child care programs

$500
$75
$575



section 56 (c)

Grow more than 4 non-medical cannabis plants at dwelling house

$200
$30
$230



section 56 (d)

Grow non-medical cannabis plants at different dwelling houses at
the same time

$200
$30
$230



section 56 (e)

Grow more than 4 non-medical cannabis plants at dwelling house
where 2 or more adults ordinarily reside

$200
$30
$230



section 56 (g)

Grow non-medical cannabis that is visible from public place

$200
$30
$230



section 58 (a)

Grow medical cannabis without authorization

$200
$30
$230



section 58 (a)

Grow medical cannabis at unauthorized site

$200
$30
$230



section 58 (b) (i)

Grow medical cannabis at dwelling house licensed to provide
specified child care programs

$500
$75
$575



section 58 (c)

Grow more than the authorized number of medical cannabis plants at
a site

$200
$30
$230



section 58 (d)

Grow more than the authorized number of medical cannabis plants at
dwelling house

$200
$30
$230



section 58 (f)

Grow medical cannabis that is visible from public place

$200
$30
$230



section 61 (a)

Consume cannabis in or on school property

$200
$30
$230



section 62

Smoke or hold lighted cannabis on health board property

$200
$30
$230



section 62

Vape cannabis or hold activated cannabis vapour device on health
board property

$50
$8
$58



section 63 (1)

Smoke or hold lighted cannabis in or on an outdoor public place

$200
$30
$230



section 63 (1)

Vape cannabis or hold activated cannabis vapour device in or on an
outdoor public place

$50
$8
$58



section 63 (3)

Smoke or hold lighted cannabis in prescribed area of park or
outdoor recreational area

$200
$30
$230



section 63 (3)

Vape cannabis or hold activated cannabis vapour device in
prescribed area of park or outdoor recreational area

$50
$8
$58



section 64 (1)

Smoke or hold lighted cannabis in indoor public place, workplace
or residential common area

$200
$30
$230



section 64 (1)

Vape cannabis or hold activated cannabis vapour device in indoor
public place, workplace or residential common area

$50
$8
$58



section 64 (3)

Smoke or hold lighted cannabis within prescribed distance from
doorway, window or air intake

$200
$30
$230



section 64 (3)

Vape cannabis or hold activated cannabis vapour device within
prescribed distance from doorway, window or air intake

$50
$8
$58



section 65 (1) (a)

Consume cannabis while operating vehicle or boat

$500
$75
$575



section 65 (1) (b)

Consume cannabis in vehicle or boat operated by another person

$200
$30
$230



section 65 (2)

Operate vehicle or boat knowing that another person is smoking or
vaping cannabis in it

$200
$30
$230



section 66 (a)

Smoke or hold lighted cannabis at bus stop or similar place

$200
$30
$230



section 66 (a)

Vape cannabis or hold activated cannabis vapour device at bus stop
or similar place

$50
$8
$58



section 66 (b)

Smoke or hold lighted cannabis within prescribed distance from bus
stop

$200
$30
$230



section 66 (b)

Vape cannabis or hold activated cannabis vapour device within
prescribed distance from bus stop

$50
$8
$58



section 67

Consume cannabis in retail cannabis store

$200
$30
$230



section 67

Consume cannabis in government cannabis store

$200
$30
$230



section 67

Consume cannabis in area abutting school property

$200
$30
$230



section 67

Smoke or hold lighted cannabis on public patio

$200
$30
$230



section 67

Vape cannabis or hold activated cannabis vapour device on public
patio

$50
$8
$58



section 69 (1)

Sell cannabis or cannabis accessory to minor

$500
$75
$575



section 69 (2)

Supply cannabis or cannabis accessory to minor

$500
$75
$575



section 69 (3)

Allow minor to consume or possess cannabis at place under one's
control

$500
$75
$575



section 70 (2) (a)

Authorized person or employee of authorized person allowing minor
to enter or be in place where authorized cannabis activities occur

$500
$75
$575



section 70 (5)

Person, other than authorized person or employee of authorized
person, allowing minor to take part in cannabis production
activities

$500
$75
$575



section 70 (7) (a)

Minor entering or being in place where authorized cannabis
activities occur

$200
$30
$230



section 70 (7) (c)

Minor entering or being in government cannabis store

$200
$30
$230



section 73 (1)
Minor possessing cannabis
$200
$30
$230



section 73 (1)
Minor consuming cannabis
$200
$30
$230



section 73 (1)
Minor producing cannabis
$200
$30
$230



section 73 (1)
Minor supplying cannabis
$200
$30
$230



section 73 (1)
Minor selling cannabis
$200
$30
$230



section 73 (1)
Minor purchasing cannabis
$200
$30
$230



section 73 (1)

Minor attempting to purchase cannabis

$200
$30
$230



section 73 (2)

Minor possessing cannabis accessory

$200
$30
$230



section 73 (2)
Minor making cannabis accessory
$200
$30
$230



section 73 (2)

Minor supplying cannabis accessory

$200
$30
$230



section 73 (2)
Minor selling cannabis accessory
$200
$30
$230



section 73 (2)

Minor purchasing cannabis accessory

$200
$30
$230



section 73 (2)

Minor attempting to purchase cannabis accessory

$200
$30
$230



section 74 (1)

Minor operating vehicle with cannabis in it contrary to Act

$200
$30
$230



section 75

Minor presenting false identification

$200
$30
$230



section 78 (1)

Intoxication from cannabis in public place

$100
$15
$115



section 79

Supply cannabis to intoxicated person

$200
$30
$230



section 81 (1) (a)

Adult operating vehicle while in personal possession of cannabis
contrary to Act

$200
$30
$230



section 81 (1) (b)

Adult operating vehicle with cannabis in it contrary to Act

$200
$30
$230








Commercial Transport Act




section 6 (2)
Unlicensed vehicle
$100
$15
$115



section 12 (1) (a)

Exceed licensed gross vehicle weight


A fine of $100 plus a victim surcharge levy of $15, totalling
$115, and, in addition a fine of $10 per 100 kg or part of it,
plus a victim surcharge levy of $1.50, totalling $11.50, of the
gross weight in excess of that allowed by the regulations or a
permit




section 12 (1) (b)
Exceed axle weight

A fine of $100 plus a victim surcharge levy of $15, totalling
$115, and, in addition a fine of $10 per 100 kg or part of it,
plus a victim surcharge levy of $1.50, totalling $11.50, of the
gross weight in excess of that allowed by the regulations or a
permit




section 12 (1) (c) (i)
Dimensions of load do not conform
$100
$15
$115



section 12 (1) (c) (ii)

Dimensions of vehicle do not conform

$100
$15
$115



section 12 (1) (d)

Distances between axles do not conform

$100
$15
$115



section 12 (3)

Contravene conditions of permit or authorization

$100
$15
$115








Commercial Transport Regulations, B.C. Reg. 30/78




section 5.01

Unauthorized commodity on logging truck

$150
$23
$173



section 6.04
Fail to remove expired permit
$75
$11
$86



section 7.02 (4)
Violate conditions of permit
$100
$15
$115



section 7.02 (11)
Misuse of permit
$150
$23
$173



section 7.03 (1)
Fail to obey peace officer
$500
$75
$575



section 7.03 (2)
Bypass weigh scale
$100
$15
$115



section 7.04 (6)

Disobey posted size or weight sign

$100
$15
$115



section 7.05 (1)

Operate vehicle with height over 4.15 m without permit

$500
$75
$575



section 7.07
Illegal trailer axle track width
$75
$11
$86



section 7.09
Illegal load sharing
$75
$11
$86



section 7.10 (a)
More than one axle unit on ground
$75
$11
$86



section 7.10 (b)
Illegal trailer converter dolly
$75
$11
$86



section 7.11 (1)
Illegal control in cab
$75
$11
$86



section 7.11 (2)
Illegal lift axle
$75
$11
$86



section 7.12 (1)
Illegal self steering axle
$75
$11
$86



section 7.15
Illegal tire load
$75
$11
$86



section 7.18 (1) (b)
Underweight 3 vehicle combination
$75
$11
$86



section 7.20 (a)
Illegal GVW on drive axle
$75
$11
$86



section 7.20 (b)
No tandem or tridem drive axle
$75
$11
$86



section 7.21
Illegal horsepower
$150
$23
$173



section 7.23 (1)

Illegal booster or jeep axle assembly

$75
$11
$86



section 7.29 (1)
Illegal 2 or 3 axle group
$75
$11
$86



section 7.29 (2)

Improper use of jeep or dog logger

$75
$11
$86



section 7.30
Illegal logging truck tire load
$75
$11
$86



section 8.03 (1)
Fail to have proper oversize sign
$50
$8
$58



section 8.03 (2)

Fail to have proper cautionary sign

$50
$8
$58



section 8.04 (1)

Fail to have proper warning device

$50
$8
$58



section 8.07
Improper use of sign
$50
$8
$58



section 11.01 (3)
Vehicle height contravenes permit
$500
$75
$575



section 11.01 (4)

Vehicle height contravenes general authority

$500
$75
$575




Every provision of the Commercial Transport Regulations, B.C. Reg.
30/78, other than those specifically enumerated in this Schedule

$75
$11
$86








COVID-19 Related Measures Act



Item 23.8 of Schedule 2






Protective Measures (COVID-19) Order No. 2







section 3 (2)

Patron failing to comply with food and liquor condition

$200
$30
$230



section 4 (3)
Promote non-compliant event
$500
$75
$575



section 4 (4)
Attend non-compliant event
$500
$75
$575



section 4 (5)

Patron failing to comply with event condition

$200
$30
$230



section 5 (4)
Attend a place where prohibited
$200
$30
$230



section 5 (5)

Patron failing to comply with protective measure condition

$200
$30
$230



section 6 (1)
Fail to comply with direction
$200
$30
$230



section 6 (2)
Abusive or belligerent behaviour
$200
$30
$230




Every provision of the
COVID-19 Related Measures Act
, the contravention

of which constitutes an offence, other than those specifically
enumerated in this Schedule

$2 000
$300
$2 300















Drinking Water Protection Act




section 7 (2) (a)

Construct water supply system without permit

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (2) (a)

Construct works, facilities or equipment without permit

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (2) (b)

Construct water supply system contrary to terms of permit or
regulations

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (2) (b)

Construct works, facilities or equipment contrary to terms of
permit or regulations

$500
$75
$575



section 8 (1) (a)

Operate water supply system without permit

$500
$75
$575



section 8 (1) (b)

Operate water supply system contrary to terms of permit

$500
$75
$575



section 8 (1) (c)

Operate water supply system in

violation of regulations

$500
$75
$575



section 9 (1) (a)

Operate, maintain or repair water supply system without being
qualified

$300
$45
$345



section 9 (1) (b)

Operate, maintain or repair water supply system without
supervision of qualified person

$300
$45
$345



section 11

Fail to comply with water monitoring requirements established by
permit or regulations

$500
$75
$575



section 14

Fail to comply with order to provide public notice of a drinking
water threat

$500
$75
$575



section 23 (1)
Contaminate drinking water
$500
$75
$575



section 23 (2)
Tamper with water supply system
$500
$75
$575



section 25

Fail to comply with hazard abatement or prevention order

$500
$75
$575



section 26

Fail to comply with an order respecting a contravention

$500
$75
$575








Drinking Water Protection Regulation, B.C. Reg. 200/2003




section 5 (2) (a)

Fail to disinfect drinking water originating from surface water

$300
$45
$345



section 5 (2) (b)

Fail to disinfect drinking water originating from ground water at
risk of containing pathogens

$300
$45
$345



section 8 (2)

Fail to monitor for total coliform bacteria or
Escheria coli

$500
$75
$575








Ecological Reserve Act




Ecological Reserve Regulation




section 2 (1)

Enter, use or occupy ecological reserve

$200
$30
$230



section 6 (2) (b)

Operate vehicle or motorized boat or take off or land aircraft or
drone in ecological reserve

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (2) (c)

Deposit waste in ecological reserve

$200
$30
$230



section 6 (2) (d)

Allow or cause waste to flow or seep in ecological reserve

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (2) (e)

Allow or cause waste to be emitted from ecological reserve

$350
$53
$403



section 6 (2) (f)

Mine or quarry in ecological reserve

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (2) (g)
Alter land in ecological reserve
$250
$45
$288



section 6 (2) (h)

Damage, destroy or sample natural resource in or remove natural
resources from ecological reserve

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (2) (i)

Disturb animal in ecological reserve

$300
$45
$345



section 6 (2) (j)

Hunt, trap or fish in or take fish or wildlife from ecological
reserve

$300
$45
$345



section 6 (2) (k)

Touch, feed or entice wildlife in ecological reserve

$300
$45
$345



section 6 (2) (l)

Light, fuel or use fire in ecological reserve

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (2) (m)

Allow domesticated animal to graze in ecological reserve

$300
$45
$345



section 6 (2) (n)

Cut or fell timber in ecological reserve

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (2) (o)

Construct or modify road or trail in ecological reserve

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (2) (p)
Camp in ecological reserve
$200
$30
$230



section 6 (2) (q)

Establish, construct or modify building or structure in ecological
reserve

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (2) (r)

Smoke cannabis or hold lighted cannabis in ecological reserve

$200
$30
$230



section 6 (2) (s)

Use or hold activated cannabis e-cigarette in ecological reserve

$50
$8
$58



section 6 (2) (t)

Smoke tobacco or hold lighted tobacco in ecological reserve

$200
$30
$230



section 6 (2) (u)

Use or hold activated e-cigarette other than cannabis in
ecological reserve

$50
$8
$58








Emergency Program Act




Travel Restrictions (Flooding and Landslides) Order No. 2







section 3 (1)
Fail to stop for police officer
$200
$30
$230



section 3 (3)
Fail to provide information
$200
$30
$230



section 3 (5)
Fail to comply with direction
$200
$30
$230



section 4
Abusive or belligerent behaviour
$200
$30
$230




Every provision of the
Emergency Program Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence

$2 000
$300
$2 300




Every provision of the regulations made under the
Emergency Program Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence

$2 000
$300
$2 300








Environmental Assessment Act




section 6 (2)

Contravene requirement contained in an environmental assessment
certificate

$500
$75
$575



section 17 (1) (b)

Contravene requirement contained in an exemption order

$500
$75
$575








Environmental Management Act




section 6 (2)

Introduce waste from a prescribed industry, trade or business

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (3)

Introduce waste by prescribed activity or operation

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (4)

Introduce waste and cause pollution

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (2)
Release hazardous waste
$500
$75
$575



section 8

Unauthorized operation of hazardous waste site

$500
$75
$575



section 9 (1)

Unlawful storage of hazardous waste

$500
$75
$575



section 9 (4)
Fail to comply with order
$500
$75
$575



section 10 (1) or (2)

Unauthorized transport of hazardous waste

$500
$75
$575



section 10 (3) (a)
Accept delivery without manifest
$500
$75
$575



section 10 (3) (b)
Fail to complete manifest
$500
$75
$575



section 10 (3) (c)

Receive unauthorized hazardous waste

$500
$75
$575



section 12 (2)
Discharge litter
$100
$15
$115



section 13

Discharge of waste from recreational vehicle

$200
$30
$230



section 79 (5)
Fail to report spill
$500
$75
$575



section 91.2 (1) (a)

Fail to report prescribed information about spill

$500
$75
$575



section 91.2 (2)

Fail to take actions to address threat or hazard caused
by spill

$500
$75
$575



section 120 (6) or (7)

Fail to comply with terms of permit or approval

$500
$75
$575



section 120 (10)
Fail to comply with order
$500
$75
$575



section 120 (11)
Contravene management plan
$500
$75
$575



section 120 (12)

Contravene hazardous waste regulations

$500
$75
$575



section 120 (13)

Contravene waste quantity or characteristic

$500
$75
$575








Antifreeze Regulation, B.C. Reg. 142/2009




section 2
Sell prohibited antifreeze
$500
$75
$575








Hazardous Waste Regulation, B.C. Reg. 63/88







section 2 (10)

Knowingly provides false information

$500
$75
$575








Open Burning Smoke Control Regulation, B.C. Reg. 152/2019







section 9

Moving vegetative debris targeted for open burning further than
authorized distance

$200
$30
$230



section 10

Failure to use reasonable alternatives to minimize open burning

$200
$30
$230



section 11

Failure to use reasonable strategies and techniques to minimize
smoke

$200
$30
$230



section 12
Burning of prohibited materials
$300
$45
$345



section 13

Failure to meet setback requirements

$300
$45
$345



section 14

Starting open burning in conditions likely to cause a negative
impact or navigation hazard

$200
$30
$230



section 15

Adding to open burning in conditions causing or likely to cause a
negative impact or navigation hazard

$200
$30
$230



section 17

Carrying on open burning that is not in accordance with one of the
applicable Divisions

$300
$45
$345



section 30 (4)

Failure to comply with an open burning prohibition

$300
$45
$345



section 31

Failure to comply with a reporting requirement

$100
$15
$115








Ozone Depleting Substances and Other Halocarbons Regulation, B.C.
Reg. 387/99




section 4 (1)
Unlawfully release substance
$500
$75
$575



section 4 (3)
Add substance to leaky device
$500
$75
$575



section 4 (4)
Allow substance to escape
$500
$75
$575



section 5
Sell non-refillable container
$200
$30
$230



section 6 (3)

Sell substance to unapproved person

$200
$30
$230



section 7 (1)
Unauthorized service of equipment
$200
$30
$230



section 8 (a)
Employ unapproved person
$200
$30
$230



section 8 (b)
Fail to provide employee record
$200
$30
$230



section 9 (1)

Fail to obtain signed acknowledgment

$200
$30
$230



section 9 (2)

Fail to retain information for 36 months

$200
$30
$230



section 10 (1)

Possess equipment not securely labelled

$200
$30
$230



section 10 (2)

Charge equipment and fail to record

$200
$30
$230



section 10 (3) (a)
Fail to keep record 36 months
$200
$30
$230



section 10 (3) (b)

Fail to make service log available

$200
$30
$230



section 11 (1)
Use substance for leak testing
$200
$30
$230



section 12 (1)

Refuse to accept return of substance

$200
$30
$230



section 13
Equipment does not meet standards
$500
$75
$575



section 14
Improperly service equipment
$500
$75
$575



section 15
Illegal disposal of equipment
$200
$30
$230



section 16
Fail to comply with standards
$500
$75
$575



section 17
Equipment does not meet standards
$500
$75
$575



section 18
Fail to recover substance
$500
$75
$575



section 23
Fail to provide plan
$500
$75
$575



section 24

Fire extinguisher contains ozone depleting substance

$500
$75
$575



section 25
Improperly service equipment
$500
$75
$575








Recycling Regulation, B.C. Reg. 449/2004







section 2 (1)

Fail to comply with approved plan or with Part 3

$500
$75
$575



section 8 (1) (a)
Fail to provide report
$500
$75
$575



section 8 (2)

Fail to provide required information

$500
$75
$575




section 6 (1) of

Schedule 1

Fail to pay refund
$100
$15
$115








Solid Fuel Burning Domestic Appliance Regulation







section 4 (3) (a)

Sell or offer to sell a new appliance without possessing records
required under section 4 (3) (a)

$500
$75
$575



section 4 (3) (b)

Sell or offer to sell a new appliance when records referred to in
section 4 (3) (a) do not demonstrate the appliance is certified

$500
$75
$575



section 4 (4)

Fail to obtain record of test results for new appliance

$300
$45
$345



section 4 (5)

Fail to inform new outdoor boiler purchaser of setback
requirements

$300
$45
$345



section 4 (6)

Fail to provide or retain record that meets requirements of
section 4 (6) (a) to (c)

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (1)

Sell or offer to sell pelletized fuel that fails to meet
specifications

$300
$45
$345



section 7 (2)

Fail to ensure boiler installed in specified period is installed
at applicable specified distance from parcel boundaries

$300
$45
$345



section 7 (3) (a)

Fail to ensure boiler installed after May 1, 2017 is a certified
boiler

$300
$45
$345



section 7 (3) (b)

Fail to ensure boiler installed after May 1, 2017 is installed at
specified distance from parcel boundaries

$300
$45
$345



section 7 (4)

Fail to ensure certified boiler designed to burn only pelletized
fuel is installed at specified distance from parcel boundaries

$300
$45
$345



section 7 (5)

Operate a boiler installed contrary to section 7 (2), (3) or (4)

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (6)

After November 1, 2026, operate a boiler other than a certified
boiler or a phase 2 boiler

$500
$75
$575



section 9 (2) (a)

Fail to produce records for inspection

$300
$45
$345



section 9 (2) (b)

Fail to produce report in the form or at the time directed

$300
$45
$345








Storage of Recyclable Materials Regulation, B.C. Reg. 133/92







section 4 (1)

Improper storage of recyclable material

$200
$30
$230



section 4 (2)
Exceed maximum quantity
$200
$30
$230



section 5 (1)
Exceed storage period
$200
$30
$230








Waste Discharge Regulation, B.C. Reg. 320/2004







section 5 (1)

Knowingly provides false information

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (1)

Fail to comply with a code of practice other than a waste
introduction requirement

$500
$75
$575








Firearm Act




section 9
Loaded firearm in vehicle
$200
$30
$230








Fish and Seafood Act




section 3

Fail to ensure fish or aquatic plants safe for,

or not distributed for, human consumption

$350
$53
$403



section 4
Fail to be licensed
$350
$53
$403



section 5

Possess or distribute fish or aquatic

plants from unlawful source

$350
$53
$403



section 6

Possess or distribute restricted fish or aquatic plants

$350
$53
$403



section 14

Fail to comply with Act, regulations or licence

$350
$53
$403



section 15 (1)

Fail to take preventative measures when

processing fish or aquatic plants

$350
$53
$403



section 15 (2)

Fail to conduct prescribed analyses or

monitoring

$350
$53
$403



section 15 (3)

Fail to adequately train or sufficiently

equip employees

$350
$53
$403



section 16

Fail to meet requirements respecting facilities,

vehicles or equipment

$350
$53
$403



section 17 (1)
Fail to keep or produce records
$350
$53
$403



section 17 (2)
Fail to make reports
$350
$53
$403



section 18

Fail to take measures with respect to, or

report, unsafe food

$350
$53
$403



section 19

Fail to meet traceability requirements

$350
$53
$403



section 20 (a)
Fail to be certified
$350
$53
$403



section 20 (b)
Fail to meet prescribed standards
$350
$53
$403



section 35
Fail to comply with order
$350
$53
$403



section 36

Unlawful removal, defacement or alteration of

order, notice, mark or tag

$350
$53
$403



section 54 (2) (a)

Knowingly provide false or misleading information

$350
$53
$403



section 54 (2) (b)

Interfere with or obstruct person exercising

powers and duties under the Act

$350
$53
$403









Every provision of the Fish and Seafood Licensing Regulation, the
contravention of which constitutes an offence

$350
$53
$403








Food and Agricultural Products Classification Act







section 9 (a)

Unlawfully attach a protected label to food

or an agricultural product

$350
$53
$403



section 9 (b)

Unlawfully attach a protected label to or

unlawfully include a protected label in a record

purporting to apply to food or an agricultural product

$350
$53
$403



section 9 (c)

Unlawfully use a protected label in connection

with the marketing of food or an agricultural product

$350
$53
$403








Food Safety Act







Meat Inspection Regulation, B.C. Reg. 349/2004




section 13.2 (2) (a)

Movement of carcass to temporary holding area without inspector's
direction

$350
$53
$403



section 13.2 (2) (b)

Fail to mark or label carcass or part as required

$350
$53
$403



section 13.2 (2) (c)

Removal of carcass from temporary holding area before inspection
is complete

$350
$53
$403



section 18 (a)

Fail to protect carcass from contamination

$350
$53
$403



section 18 (b)
Unsanitary processing of carcass
$350
$53
$403



section 29 (1)

Fail to keep records of individual animals

$350
$53
$403



section 29 (2)

Fail to keep records of flocks or shipments of poultry or rabbits

$350
$53
$403



section 29.1

Storage or sale of uninspected carcass or meat product

$350
$53
$403



section 29.2

Prohibited sale of carcass or meat product

$350
$53
$403



section 29.3
Fail to label carcass as required
$350
$53
$403



section 29.4

Fail to label meat products as required

$350
$53
$403



section 29.5

Prohibited resale of carcass or meat product

$350
$53
$403



section 29.6 (2) (a)

Fail to label resold carcass or meat product as required

$350
$53
$403



section 29.6 (2) (b)

Fail to advise purchaser about resold carcass or meat product as
required

$350
$53
$403








Forest Act




section 84 (1)
Fail to ensure timber is marked
$150
$23
$173



section 84 (3)
Fail to mark timber
$150
$23
$173



section 84 (4)

Remove, obliterate or alter a timber mark

$150
$23
$173



section 86 (1)
Fail to ensure timber is marked
$150
$23
$173



section 86 (2)
Fail to mark timber
$150
$23
$173



section 86 (4)

Remove, obliterate or alter a scaled timber brand

$150
$23
$173



section 89 (1) (b)

Brand timber which is not marked and scaled

$150
$23
$173



section 90 (1)
Use mark or brand without consent
$150
$23
$173



section 90 (2)

Transfer marine log brand without consent

$150
$23
$173



section 93.1

Misrepresent as an authorized scaler

$150
$23
$173



section 94 (1)

Manufacture or sell unscaled timber

$150
$23
$173



section 94 (1)

Transport to place other than designated scale site

$150
$23
$173



section 94 (1)
Scaling by person not authorized
$150
$23
$173



section 94 (4)

Fail to retain timber for check scaling

$150
$23
$173



section 95 (1)

Timber scaled at unauthorized site

$150
$23
$173



section 95 (7)

Fail to comply with site conditions

$150
$23
$173



section 96 (1)

Fail to follow prescribed procedures

$100
$15
$115



section 97 (1) (e)
Fail to retain record
$150
$23
$173



section 97 (1) (e)
Fail to record in approved form
$150
$23
$173



section 97 (1) (f)

Fail to complete scale return in approved form

$150
$23
$173



section 97 (1) (f)

Fail to deliver scale return in approved form

$150
$23
$173



section 97 (1) (f)

Fail to deliver scale return in prescribed time

$100
$15
$115



section 97 (6)

Fail to incorporate check scale details

$200
$30
$230



section 127
Unauthorized export of timber
$150
$23
$173








Log Salvage Regulation for the Vancouver Log Salvage District,
B.C. Reg. 220/81




section 12 (1)
Salvage without permit
$150
$23
$173



section 12 (3)
Fail to carry permit
$100
$15
$115



section 12 (4) (a)
Fail to produce permit
$100
$15
$115



section 12 (4) (b)
Fail to produce proof of identity
$100
$15
$115



section 14
Salvage in prohibited area
$180
$27
$207



section 15 (2)
Inadequate identification
$100
$15
$115



section 16 (2)
Failure to mark
$150
$23
$173



section 16 (4) (a)
Obliterate mark
$180
$27
$207



section 16 (4) (d)
Process salvaged log
$150
$23
$173



section 17

Remove from water prior to scaling

$150
$23
$173



section 18
Salvage during non daylight hours
$150
$23
$173








Scaling Regulation, B.C. Reg. 446/94




section 2

Timber not scaled as soon as possible

$150
$23
$173



section 4 (1)

Buck prior to scale without permission

$150
$23
$173



section 4 (4)
Fail to comply with bucking order
$150
$23
$173








Timber Marking and Transportation Regulation, B.C. Reg. 253/97




section 10 (1)

Fail to have written transport description

$150
$23
$173



section 10 (2)
Inadequate transport description
$150
$23
$173



section 10 (3)
Fail to maintain adequate records
$150
$23
$173



section 10 (4)

Fail to show written transport description

$150
$23
$173








Forest and Range Practices Act




section 3 (1)

Operate without forest stewardship plan

$150
$23
$173



section 21 (1)
Harvest contrary to plan
$150
$23
$173



section 22 (2)

Unauthorized use of road in a Provincial forest

$150
$23
$173



section 22 (2)

Unauthorized use of forest service road

$150
$23
$173



section 22.1 (1)
Unauthorized industrial road use
$150
$23
$173



section 22.1 (6)
Fail to maintain road as required
$300
$45
$345



section 23 (1)

Connect to forest service road without consent

$100
$15
$115



section 45 (1) (a)

Conduct range practice contrary to the Act

$150
$23
$173



section 45 (1) (b)

Conduct range practice contrary to plan

$150
$23
$173



section 46 (1.1)

Unauthorized activity resulting in prescribed damage

to the environment

$500
$75
$575



section 47
Fail to limit invasive plants
$100
$15
$115



section 50 (1)

Unauthorized livestock on Crown range

$150
$23
$173



section 50 (2)
Cut hay without authority
$150
$23
$173



section 51 (1) (a)
Store hay without authority
$100
$15
$115



section 51 (1) (b)

Unauthorized construction, modification, damage or destruction of
range development

$150
$23
$173



section 51 (8)
Fail to remove range development
$150
$23
$173



section 52

Cut, remove, damage or destroy Crown timber

without authority

$150
$23
$173



section 53 (1)

Fail to inform person of boundaries

$150
$23
$173



section 53 (2)
Fail to ascertain boundaries
$150
$23
$173



section 54 (1)

Unauthorized construction or occupation of a structure

$100
$15
$115



section 57 (1)

Unauthorized trail or recreation facility construction

$100
$15
$115



section 58 (1) (a)
Disobey non-recreation order
$100
$15
$115



section 58 (1) (b)
Disobey recreation order
$100
$15
$115



section 63 (1)
Fail to stop vehicle or vessel
$150
$23
$173



section 63 (2)
Fail to provide documents
$100
$15
$115



section 97 (2)

Intentional interference, noncompliance or false

statement

$300
$45
$345








Forest Planning and Practices Regulation, B.C. Reg. 14/2004




section 35 (3)

Exceed specified amount of soil disturbance

$300
$45
$345



section 61

Build bladed trail, in community watershed,

that affects water quality

$150
$23
$173



section 63 (1)

Fertilizer within 100 m of licensed waterworks

$150
$23
$173



section 70 (1)
Fail to protect resource feature
$150
$23
$173



section 72
Construct unsafe road
$300
$45
$345



section 79 (2)
Fail to maintain road as required
$300
$45
$345



section 82 (1)

Fail to deactivate road according to prescribed

requirements

$300
$45
$345



section 82 (4)

Fail to maintain stability of deactivated area

$300
$45
$345








Range Planning and Practices Regulation, B.C. Reg. 19/2004




section 33 (1)
Livestock in riparian area
$150
$23
$173



section 35
Fail to remove dead livestock
$150
$23
$173



section 40 (1)

Fail to maintain range development

$100
$15
$115



section 42 (2) (a)
Fail to tag livestock
$100
$15
$115



section 42 (2) (b)
Fail to report loss of tags
$100
$15
$115








Woodlot Licence Planning and Practices Regulation, B.C. Reg.
21/2004




section 24

Exceed specified amount of soil disturbance

$300
$45
$345



section 49

Build bladed trail, in community watershed,

that affects water quality

$150
$23
$173



section 51 (1)

Fertilizer within 100 m of licensed waterworks

$150
$23
$173



section 56 (1)
Fail to protect resource feature
$150
$23
$173



section 61
Construct unsafe road
$300
$45
$345



section 68 (1)
Fail to maintain road as required
$300
$45
$345



section 71 (1)

Fail to deactivate road according to prescribed

requirements

$300
$45
$345








Forest Recreation Regulation, B.C. Reg. 16/2004




section 6 (1)

Illegal use of vehicle or equipment on recreation site

$100
$15
$115



section 6 (2)
Exceed 20 km/h
$100
$15
$115



section 6 (3)
Illegal parking
$50
$8
$58



section 7 (1)

Fail to wear bicycle safety helmet

$25
$4
$29



section 8
Illegal discharge of holding tank
$100
$15
$115



section 9
Illegal disposal of litter
$75
$11
$86



section 10
Illegal disposal of game residue
$75
$11
$86



section 11

Illegal use of traps, firearms, bows or crossbows

$100
$15
$115



section 12 (1) (a)

Pet threatening life, safety or property

$100
$15
$115



section 12 (1) (b)
Pet causing disturbance
$50
$8
$58



section 13 (1)

Unauthorized stay exceeding 14 days

$50
$8
$58



section 14
Unauthorized removal of firewood
$50
$8
$58



section 15 (1)

Unauthorized construction of structure

$100
$15
$115



section 16

Unauthorized use of site, trail or area

$50
$8
$58



section 17 (a)

Damage to facilities, structures or natural resources

$100
$15
$115



section 17 (b)

Unauthorized moving of a structure

$50
$8
$58



section 18 (1)

Deliberate or unnecessary disturbance

$100
$15
$115



section 18 (2)

Disturbance between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.

$100
$15
$115



section 20 (6)

Fail to comply with limitation on occupancy and use

$50
$8
$58



section 23 (2)

Fail to vacate site, trail or area upon lawful order

$100
$15
$115



section 23 (2)

Unauthorized entry to site, trail or area

$100
$15
$115








Forest Service Road Use Regulation, B.C. Reg. 70/2004







section 3 (3)

Snowmobile illegally on forest service road

$50
$8
$58



section 4
Speed on forest service road
$75
$11
$86



section 5 (1)

Fail to properly transmit location

$75
$11
$86



section 6 (3)

Erect traffic control device without authority

$75
$11
$86



section 6 (4)

Damage or remove traffic control device

$75
$11
$86



section 6 (5)
Disobey traffic control device
$75
$11
$86



section 7

Vehicle not maintained to standards

$100
$15
$115



section 8

Unlicensed industrial vehicle not properly marked

$75
$11
$86



section 10 (1)
Damage forest service road
$150
$23
$173



section 11 (1)
Construct works without permit
$150
$23
$173



section 12 (1)

Use forest service road without required insurance

$300
$45
$345








Gaming Control Act




section 45 (1)

Hold horse race meeting without licence

$500
$75
$575



section 45 (1)

Operate race track, horse racing teletheatre or

race horse training center without licence

$500
$75
$575



section 45 (2)

Unlicensed judging of or participation in horse race

$250
$38
$288



section 50 (3)

Fail to comply with demand to submit to search

$250
$38
$288



section 50 (3)

Fail to comply with demand to provide samples for testing or
analysis

$250
$38
$288



section 87

Fail to submit to an audit, inspection or investigation

$250
$38
$288



section 88 (a)

Unauthorized operation of lottery scheme

$500
$75
$575



section 88 (b)

Unauthorized promotion of lottery scheme

$500
$75
$575



section 89 (1)

Allow minors unlawfully present at gaming facilities

$150
$23
$173



section 89 (2)

Allow minors to participate in gaming

$250
$38
$288



section 89 (3)

Sale of lottery tickets to a minor

$250
$38
$288



section 90

Unauthorized sale of lottery tickets

$250
$38
$288



section 93 (1)

Remain at or enter a gaming facility when prohibited

$150
$23
$173



section 94

Unregistered provision of gaming services

$500
$75
$575



section 95 (a)

Possession of unregistered gaming supplies

$250
$38
$288



section 95 (b)

Make, sell, advertise or promote unregistered gaming supplies

$500
$75
$575



section 96 (1)

Unregistered or unexcluded work as gaming worker

$150
$23
$173



section 96 (2)

Employ unregistered or unexcluded gaming worker

$250
$38
$288



section 97 (2) (c)

Make a false or misleading statement

$250
$38
$288



section 97 (2) (e)

Fail to comply with condition of a licence or registration

$150
$23
$173








Guide Dog and Service Dog Act




section 2 (2) (a)

Interference with right of entry and use

$250
$38
$288



section 2 (2) (b)
Illegal fee for dog
$250
$38
$288



section 3 (2) (a)
Illegal denial of tenancy
$250
$38
$288



section 3 (2) (b)

Illegal term or condition of tenancy

$250
$38
$288



section 4
False representation
$100
$15
$115



section 7 (3)
Failure to surrender certificate
$50
$8
$58








Integrated Pest Management Act




section 3 (1) (a)

Use pesticide causing or likely to cause unreasonable adverse
effect

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (a)

Use pesticide in manner causing or likely to cause unreasonable
adverse effect

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (a)

Handle pesticide in manner causing or likely to cause unreasonable
adverse effect

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (a)

Release pesticide in manner causing or likely to cause
unreasonable adverse effect

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (a)

Transport pesticide in manner causing or likely to cause
unreasonable adverse effect

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (a)

Store pesticide in manner causing or likely to cause unreasonable
adverse effect

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (a)

Dispose of pesticide in manner causing or likely to cause
unreasonable adverse effect

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (a)

Sell pesticide in manner causing or likely to cause unreasonable
adverse effect

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (b)
Unlawfully use pesticide
$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (b)
Unlawfully handle pesticide
$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (b)
Unlawfully release pesticide
$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (b)
Unlawfully transport pesticide
$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (b)
Unlawfully store pesticide
$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (b)
Unlawfully dispose of pesticide
$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (b)
Unlawfully sell pesticide
$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (c)

Use pesticide contrary to label or instructions

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (c)

Handle pesticide contrary to label or instructions

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (c)

Transport pesticide contrary to label or instructions

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (c)

Store pesticide contrary to label or instructions

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (1) (c)

Dispose of pesticide contrary to label or instructions

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (2) (a)
Use pesticide contrary to registered purpose
$500
$75
$575



section 3 (2) (b)
Improper use of unregistered pesticide
$500
$75
$575



section 3 (2) (c)
Improper use of pesticide-fertilizer
$500
$75
$575



section 4 (1) (a) and (e)
Sell pesticide without licence
$500
$75
$575



section 4 (1) (a) and (f)
Sell pesticide contrary to licence conditions
$500
$75
$575



section 4 (1) (b) and (e)
Use pesticide without licence
$500
$75
$575



section 4 (1) (b) and (f)
Use pesticide contrary to licence conditions
$500
$75
$575



section 4 (1) (c) and (e)
Provide service without licence
$500
$75
$575



section 4 (1) (c) and (f)
Provide service contrary to licence conditions
$500
$75
$575



section 4 (1) (d) and (e)

Purchase pesticide to sell or provide service without licence

$500
$75
$575



section 4 (1) (d) and (f)

Purchase pesticide to sell or provide service contrary to licence
conditions

$500
$75
$575



section 5 (1) (a)
Use pesticide without certificate
$500
$75
$575



section 5 (1) (b)

Use pesticide contrary to certificate conditions

$500
$75
$575



section 5 (2)

Fail to ensure certified individual performs pesticide use duties

$500
$75
$575



section 5 (3)

Fail to ensure certified individual performs pesticide sale duties

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (1) (a)
Use or authorize pesticide use without permit
$500
$75
$575



section 6 (1) (b)

Use or authorize pesticide use contrary to permit conditions

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (1) (a)

Use or authorize use of pesticide without lawful pest management
plan

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (1) (b)

Use or authorize use of pesticide without providing pesticide use
notice

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (1) (c)

Use or authorize use of pesticide without confirmation

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (1) (d)
Use pesticide contrary to pesticide use notice
$500
$75
$575



section 7 (6) (a)
Fail to keep pest management plan
$500
$75
$575



section 7 (6) (b)

Fail to produce pest management plan for inspection

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (6) (c) (i)

Fail to provide copy of pest management plan to inspector

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (6) (c) (ii)

Fail to provide copy of pest management plan on payment and
request

$500
$75
$575



section 12 (1)

Perform as qualified monitor without qualifications

$500
$75
$575



section 12 (2)

Perform as qualified monitor without satisfying requirement

$500
$75
$575



section 21 (2)
Fail to provide proof of identity
$500
$75
$575



section 26 (1) (b)
Obstruction
$500
$75
$575



section 26 (1) (c)
Fail to comply with order
$500
$75
$575



section 26 (1) (d)

Obtains services of unqualified individual as monitor

$500
$75
$575



section 26 (1) (e)
Make false statement or mislead
$500
$75
$575








Liquor Control and Licensing Act




section 61 (2) (b) (i)

Allow a person to become intoxicated

$200
$30
$230



section 61 (2) (b) (ii)

Allow intoxicated person in a service area

$200
$30
$230



section 61 (2) (b) (iii)
Allow disorderly conduct
$200
$30
$230



section 73 (1)

Consume liquor or possess liquor in an open container

in a public place

$200
$30
$230



section 74 (1)
Intoxicated in a public place
$100
$15
$115



section 75

Sell, serve or give liquor to an intoxicated person

$200
$30
$230



section 76 (2)
Liquor in motor vehicle
$200
$30
$230



section 77 (1) (a)

Sell, give or otherwise supply liquor to a minor

$500
$75
$575



section 77 (1) (b)

Possess liquor for the purpose of selling, giving or

otherwise supplying it to a minor

$500
$75
$575



section 77 (1) (c)

Allow a minor to consume or possess liquor

in or at a place under one's control

$500
$75
$575



section 78 (1) (a)
Purchase of liquor by minor
$200
$30
$230



section 78 (1) (b)
Consumption of liquor by minor
$200
$30
$230



section 78 (1) (c)
Possession of liquor by minor
$200
$30
$230



section 78 (2)

Minor in a liquor store or service area

$200
$30
$230



section 78 (3)

Presentation of false identification by minor

$200
$30
$230




Every provision of the
Liquor Control and Licensing Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence, other than








(a) those specifically enumerated in this Schedule, and








(b) sections 8 (2) (a), 61 (2) (b) (v) and (4) and 79 (1)

$50
$8
$58








Livestock Protection Act




section 3 (1)
Keep dog without licence
$50
$8
$58




Every provision of the
Livestock Protection Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence, other than
those specifically enumerated in this Schedule

$50
$8
$58








Metal Dealers and Recyclers Act




section 2 (a)

Fail to present prescribed identification

$250
$38
$288



section 2 (b)

Fail to present prescribed identification

$250
$38
$288



section 2 (b)

Fail to provide required information

$250
$38
$288



section 3 (1)

Purchase of metal from person who does not

provide the required identification or information

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (2) (a)

Fail to take reasonable measures to ensure

identification has not been altered or defaced

$250
$38
$288



section 3 (2) (b)

Fail to take reasonable measures to ensure

identification was issued by issuing agency to

the person

$250
$38
$288



section 3 (2) (c)

Fail to take reasonable measures to ensure identification is not
forged or fraudulent

$250
$38
$288



section 3 (3) (a)

Purchase, without proof of ownership, metallic

wire that reasonably appears to have had

insulation or casing removed

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (3) (b)

Purchase, without proof of ownership, regulated

metal with identifying marks of ownership by a

local authority, public utility or prescribed entity

$500
$75
$575



section 5 (1) (a)
Fail to assign a customer code
$500
$75
$575



section 5 (1) (b)

Fail to record required information at time of

transaction

$500
$75
$575



section 5 (2)

Fail to collect and record required information at

time of transaction

$500
$75
$575



section 6

Fail to provide transaction information to local

police authority within prescribed period of time or

in prescribed manner and form

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (a)

Fail to record and maintain transaction information

in prescribed manner and form

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (b)

Fail to keep transaction information on business

premises for at least one year

$500
$75
$575



section 8

Carry on business as metal dealer or recycler

without registration

$500
$75
$575



section 25 (1) (b)

Fail to comply with a term or condition of

registration

$100
$15
$115



section 25 (2) (a)

Provide false or misleading information when

required or authorized by the Act

$500
$75
$575



section 25 (2) (b)

Provide false or misleading information when

applying for registration

$500
$75
$575



section 25 (2) (c)

Provide false or misleading information when

requested, ordered or directed by the registrar

or an inspector to provide information

$500
$75
$575



section 25 (4)

Obstruct, impede or refuse to admit an inspector

$500
$75
$575








Metal Dealers and Recyclers Regulation, B.C. Reg. 101/2012




section 7 (3)

Fail to notify local police authority of change to transaction
information

$500
$75
$575



section 11

Payment in cash for regulated metal if value greater than $50

$250
$38
$288



section 13 (3)

Fail to keep required list of commercial entities

$500
$75
$575








Motor Dealer Act




section 3 (1) (a)
Unregistered dealer
$250
$38
$288



section 3 (1) (b)
Operate away from premises
$100
$15
$115



section 3 (1) (b)

Operate in other than registered name

$100
$15
$115



section 11
Inadequate sign
$75
$11
$86



section 11
Fail to display sign
$75
$11
$86



section 12 (a)

Fail to notify — change of address

$50
$8
$58



section 12 (a)

Fail to notify — change of registered name

$50
$8
$58



section 13 (1) (a)
No name/registration no.
$100
$15
$115



section 13 (2)
Fail to affix selling price
$50
$8
$58








Motor Dealer Act Regulation, B.C. Reg. 447/78







section 5
Fail to display registration
$50
$8
$58



section 20
Fail to maintain records
$100
$15
$115



section 21 (1) (a)
No name/address on agreement
$50
$8
$58



section 21 (1) (b)
No date of sale on agreement
$50
$8
$58



section 21 (1) (c)
No make of vehicle on agreement
$50
$8
$58



section 21 (1) (d)
No model year on agreement
$50
$8
$58



section 21 (1) (e)
No V.I.N. on agreement
$50
$8
$58



section 21 (1) (f)
No body type on agreement
$50
$8
$58



section 21 (1) (g)
No accessory prices on agreement
$50
$8
$58



section 21 (1) (h)
No selling price on agreement
$50
$8
$58



section 21 (1) (j)

No deposit/down payment/trade value on agreement

$50
$8
$58



section 21 (1) (k)
No balance owed on agreement
$50
$8
$58



section 21 (1) (l)
No other charges on agreement
$50
$8
$58



section 21 (1) (m)

No financing disclosure on agreement

$50
$8
$58



section 21 (2) (a)

No documentation/transfer fee on agreement

$50
$8
$58



section 21 (2) (b)
No odometer reading on agreement
$150
$23
$173



section 21 (2) (c)

No previous jurisdiction on agreement

$400
$60
$460



section 21 (2) (d)

No list/cost of necessary repairs on agreement

$50
$8
$58



section 21 (2) (e)

No M.V. Act compliance on agreement

$50
$8
$58



section 21 (2) (f)

No "Unsuitable for Transport" on agreement

$150
$23
$173



section 21 (2.1) (a)
No disclosure — transport cost
$100
$15
$115



section 21 (2.1) (b)
No disclosure — set-up cost
$100
$15
$115



section 21 (2.1) (c)
No disclosure — hook-up cost
$100
$15
$115



section 21 (2.1) (d)

No disclosure — park development fees

$100
$15
$115



section 21 (3)
No copy of agreement provided
$100
$15
$115



section 23 (a)

Non-disclosure — use in organized racing

$400
$60
$460



section 23 (a)

Non-disclosure — use as a taxi, police, emergency vehicle

$400
$60
$460



section 23 (b) (i)

Non-disclosure — damage exceeding 20% of asking price (New)

$400
$60
$460



section 23 (b) (ii)

Non-disclosure — damage exceeding $2 000 (Used)

$400
$60
$460



section 23 (c)

Non-disclosure — lease/rental vehicle

$400
$60
$460



section 23 (d)

Non-disclosure — vehicle imported for resale

$400
$60
$460



section 23 (e)

Non-disclosure — accurate odometer reading

$400
$60
$460



section 24
Improper description of vehicle
$150
$23
$173



section 25

Fail to record replacement odometer reading

$300
$45
$345



section 25

Fail to record repaired odometer reading

$300
$45
$345



section 26 (a)

Fail to affix V.I.N., make and model

$50
$8
$58



section 26 (b)
Fail to affix total asking price
$50
$8
$58



section 26 (c)
Fail to affix list of options
$50
$8
$58



section 26.1
No total price in advertisement
$150
$23
$173



section 27 (a)
Fail to affix asking price
$50
$8
$58



section 27 (b)

Fail to affix "Not Suitable for Transportation"

$50
$8
$58








Motor Fuel Tax Act




section 15
Illegal use of coloured fuel
$200
$30
$230



section 16
No user permit
$200
$30
$230




Every provision of the
Motor Fuel Tax Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence, other than
those specifically enumerated in this Schedule

$200
$30
$230








Every provision of the regulations made under the
Motor Fuel Tax Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence

$200
$30
$230








Off-Road Vehicle Act




section 7 (1)
Fail to change address
$95
$14
$109



section 7 (2)
Fail to change name
$95
$14
$109



section 8 (1) (b)

Fail to deliver notice of transfer

$95
$14
$109



section 11 (1) (a) to (c)

Fail to apply for vehicle identification number

$95
$14
$109



section 11 (3)

Fail to properly apply vehicle identification number

$95
$14
$109



section 12 (1)

Alter, remove or obliterate vehicle identification number

$150
$23
$173



section 13 (1) (a) (i)

Alter or obliterate number plate, decal or sticker

$150
$23
$173



section 13 (1) (a) (ii)

Alter or obliterate registration, permit or other document

$150
$23
$173



section 13 (1) (b) (i)

Use or operate off-road vehicle with altered, obliterated or
repainted number plate, decal or sticker

$150
$23
$173



section 13 (1) (b) (ii)

Use or operate off-road vehicle with fictitious number plate,
decal, sticker or other document

$200
$30
$230



section 13 (1) (c)

Use or operate off-road vehicle in possession of fictitious or
invalid plate, decal, sticker or other document

$200
$30
$230



section 14 (a) and (b)

Use or operate off-road vehicle not registered under ORA or
registered or licensed under MVA or CTA

$200
$30
$230



section 14 (c) (i)

Use or operate off-road vehicle without registration or licence
from other jurisdiction

$200
$30
$230



section 14 (c) (ii)

Fail to display number plate, decal or sticker of other
jurisdiction

$150
$23
$173



section 15 (1) (a)

Fail to carry certificate of registration (or copy)

$95
$14
$109



section 15 (1) (b)

Improper display of number plate, decal or sticker

$150
$23
$173



section 15 (2) (a)

No evidence of licence issued under MVA or CTA

$95
$14
$109



section 15 (2) (b)

Improper display of number plate issued under MVA or CTA

$200
$30
$230



section 15 (3)

Fail to carry documentation issued by other jurisdiction

$95
$14
$109



section 17 (1) (a)

Use or operate off-road vehicle carelessly

$320
$48
$368



section 17 (1) (b)
Harass animals
$250
$38
$288



section 17 (2) (a)

Use or operate on operating railway

$150
$23
$173



section 17 (2) (b)

Use or operate on private land without owner's consent

$100
$15
$115



section 17 (3)
Fail to comply with permit
$150
$23
$173



section 18 (1)
No approved safety helmet
$120
$18
$138



section 18 (2)

Allow minor to be passenger without safety helmet

$120
$18
$138



section 19 (a)

Off-road vehicle not properly equipped with lights

$95
$14
$109



section 19 (b)
Fail to maintain lights
$95
$14
$109



section 19 (c)
Fail to use lights
$95
$14
$109



section 20 (a)
Allow prohibited act by minor
$200
$30
$230



section 20 (b)
Allow minor to contravene permit
$150
$23
$173



section 21 (2)
Fail to stop for officer
$250
$38
$288



section 21 (3) (a)

Fail to identify correct name and address

$250
$38
$288



section 21 (3) (b)

Fail to produce documents and identification

$150
$23
$173



section 25
Obstruct an officer
$250
$38
$288



section 26 (5)

False statement in application or notice of transfer

$95
$14
$109








Park, Conservancy and Recreation Area Regulation, B.C. Reg. 180/90




section 4
Guide without permit
$500
$75
$575



section 5
Trap without permit
$200
$30
$230



section 7
Fail to give information
$300
$45
$345



section 8 (1)
Cause a disturbance
$200
$30
$230



section 8 (2)

Cause a disturbance between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m.

$300
$45
$345



section 9 (1)

Fail to comply with eviction order

$300
$45
$345



section 10 (2)
Fail to obey sign
$100
$15
$115



section 11 (1)
Illegal fire
$300
$45
$345



section 11 (2)
Illegal use of vegetation
$200
$30
$230



section 11 (3)
Illegal use of vegetation
$200
$30
$230



section 11 (4)
Fail to extinguish fire
$150
$23
$173



section 11.1 (2)
Smoke tobacco in prohibited area
$200
$30
$230



section 11.1 (2)

Hold lighted tobacco in prohibited area

$200
$30
$230



section 11.1 (2)

Use e-cigarette in prohibited area

$50
$8
$58



section 11.1 (2)

Hold activated e-cigarette in prohibited area

$50
$8
$58



section 12

Illegal use of snow sliding device

$100
$15
$115



section 13
Allow prohibited act by minor
$200
$30
$230



section 16

Exceed maximum persons in Bowron Lake Park

$100
$15
$115



section 17 (1)
Exceed maximum storage period
$100
$15
$115



section 17 (2)
Unlawful storage
$200
$30
$230



section 18
Horse in prohibited area
$100
$15
$115



section 19 (1)

Domestic animal in prohibited area

$100
$15
$115



section 19 (3)
Unrestrained domestic animal
$100
$15
$115



section 19 (4)

Allow prohibited act by domestic animal

$100
$15
$115



section 19 (5)

Domestic animal in Bowron Lake Park

$100
$15
$115



section 19 (5)
Domestic animal in Garibaldi Park
$100
$15
$115



section 19 (6)

Fail to dispose of animal excrement

$100
$15
$115



section 20
Fail to control animal
$100
$15
$115



section 21
Unlawful possession of explosive
$300
$45
$345



section 23 (1)
Illegal parking
$50
$8
$58



section 23 (2)

Illegal parking between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m.

$100
$15
$115



section 24 (1)
Illegal use of vehicle
$500
$75
$575



section 24 (3)
Illegal use of snowmobile
$500
$75
$575



section 25
Illegal use of cycle
$100
$15
$115



section 26

Illegal use of vehicle for advertising

$100
$15
$115



section 27

Prohibited arrival or departure by aircraft

$300
$45
$345



section 28
Illegal possession of firearm
$200
$30
$230



section 28
Illegal possession of bow
$200
$30
$230



section 29 (1)
Illegal discharge of firearm
$300
$45
$345



section 29 (1)
Illegal discharge of bow
$300
$45
$345



section 29 (2)
Illegal use of firearm near road
$300
$45
$345



section 29 (2)
Illegal use of bow near road
$300
$45
$345



section 30
Illegal feeding of wildlife
$200
$30
$230



section 32 (1)
Unauthorized activity
$250
$38
$288



section 33 (1)
Illegal deposit of litter
$100
$15
$115



section 33 (2)
Illegal disposal of litter
$100
$15
$115



section 34

Illegal transport and disposal of litter

$200
$30
$230



section 36
Fail to register
$100
$15
$115



section 37 (1)
Unlawfully in campground
$125
$19
$144



section 37 (2)
Unlawfully in day use area
$125
$19
$144



section 38 (1)
Illegal camping
$125
$19
$144



section 39 (1)
Exceed maximum stay
$100
$15
$115



section 39 (2)
Exceed maximum stay
$100
$15
$115



section 42
Fail to pay appropriate fee
$125
$19
$144








Passenger Transportation Act




section 5 (7)

Obstruct an inspector or interfere with production of anything to
an inspector

$250
$38
$288



section 23 (4)

Offer to provide a service involving commercial passenger vehicles
without a licence to provide that service

$1 000
$150
$1 150



section 23.1 (1) (a)

Provide transportation network services without a licence

$1 000
$150
$1 150



section 23.1 (3)

Offer to provide transportation network services without a licence
to provide those services

$1 000
$150
$1 150



section 30 (1)

Fail to apply for transfer of licence

$250
$38
$288



section 39 (c) (i)

Fail to carry temporary permit in general passenger vehicle or
inter-city bus

$250
$38
$288



section 39 (c) (ii)

Fail to carry temporary permit or evidence of authority to operate
in passenger directed vehicle

$250
$38
$288



section 42.2 (1) (b)

Drive passenger directed vehicle without providing record check to
licensee

$250
$38
$288



section 42.2 (2)

Drive passenger directed vehicle when prohibited due to record

$500
$75
$575



section 42.2 (3)

Fail to issue record check certificate to driver

$250
$38
$288



section 42.2 (4)

Fail to notify licensee of record or return record check
certificate to licensee

$500
$75
$575



section 42.2 (5) (a) or (b)

Fail to notify registrar of record

$250
$38
$288



section 42.2 (6)

Fail to ensure compliance by drivers with requirements respecting
records

$500
$75
$575



section 42.3 (a)

Operate passenger directed vehicle without displaying record check
certificate in the vehicle

$250
$38
$288



section 43 (1)

Fail to carry licence in general passenger vehicle or inter-city
bus

$250
$38
$288



section 43 (2)

Fail to carry licence or evidence of authority to operate in
passenger directed vehicle

$250
$38
$288



section 44 (1) (a)

Fail to display vehicle identifier in commercial passenger vehicle

$250
$38
$288



section 44 (1) (b)

Display another vehicle's identifier on or in a commercial
passenger vehicle

$250
$38
$288



section 45 (1) (c)

Fail to return vehicle identifier to registrar

$250
$38
$288



section 56 (3)

Fail to comply with peace officer's directions

$250
$38
$288



section 57 (1)

Operate commercial passenger vehicle without licence or temporary
permit

$1 000
$150
$1 150



section 57.2 (2)

Operate motor vehicle while displaying invalid vehicle identifier

$250
$38
$288



section 57.3 (2)

Provide false or misleading information to registrar or board

$250
$38
$288



section 57.3 (3) (b)

Provide false or misleading information or records to inspector

$250
$38
$288








Passenger Transportation Regulation, B.C. Reg. 266/2004




section 12.1 (2)
Refuse transport to a passenger
$250
$38
$288








Pill Press and Related Equipment Control Act




section 2 (1)

Own, possess or use controlled equipment without authorization

$500
$75
$575



section 2 (1) (c)

Own, possess or use controlled equipment contrary to the limits
and conditions of an authorization

$500
$75
$575



section 2 (1) (d)

Own, possess or use controlled equipment contrary to the limits
and conditions of a waiver or registration

$500
$75
$575



section 2 (1) (e)

Own, possess or use controlled equipment contrary to prescribed
limits and conditions

$500
$75
$575



section 4 (1)

Sell controlled equipment in contravention of a registration,
enactment or court order

$500
$75
$575



section 4 (2)

Sell controlled equipment to a person in British Columbia who is
not an authorized owner

$500
$75
$575



section 4 (3)

Fail to collect prescribed information from intended purchaser

$500
$75
$575



section 4 (4)

Receive cash or a type of prescribed consideration as
consideration for sale of controlled equipment

$250
$38
$288



section 4 (5) (a) (i)

Fail to make a record of sale in the required form

$250
$38
$288



section 4 (5) (a) (ii)

Fail to include required information in a record of sale

$250
$38
$288



section 4 (5) (b)

Fail to give purchaser a record of sale

$250
$38
$288



section 4 (5) (c)

Fail to give registrar required records and information within the
required time

$250
$38
$288



section 5 (1)

Fail to ensure that controlled equipment is stored securely

$250
$38
$288



section 5 (2) (a)

Fail to notify registrar of import, construction, manufacture,
assembly or purchase of controlled equipment

$500
$75
$575



section 5 (2) (b)

Fail to notify registrar of a change in location where controlled
equipment is ordinarily stored

$500
$75
$575



section 5 (2) (c)

Fail to notify registrar if controlled equipment is lost, stolen
or destroyed

$500
$75
$575



section 5 (2) (f)

Fail to notify registrar if authority to manufacture a drug or
natural health product is suspended or cancelled

$500
$75
$575



section 5 (2) (g)

Fail to notify registrar if charged with or convicted of a
relevant offence

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (2) (a)

Fail to keep records in accessible location

$250
$38
$288



section 6 (2) (b)

Fail to produce records as required

$250
$38
$288



section 22 (3) (a)

Fail to comply with an order of an inspector

$500
$75
$575



section 22 (3) (c)

Knowingly provide false or misleading information

$500
$75
$575








Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act




section 23.1 (1) (a)
Harm a service animal
$250
$38
$288



section 23.1 (1) (c)

Interfere with or obstruct a service animal

$250
$38
$288








Public Health Act




section 99 (1) (k)

Fail to comply with an order issued under Part 4

$300
$45
$345



section 99 (4) (a)

Provide false or misleading information

$100
$15
$115



section 99 (4) (b)

Interfere with or obstruct an official

$100
$15
$115








E-Substances Regulation, B.C. Reg. 186/2020




section 4 (1)

Sale of e-substance not containing nicotine, nicotine salts or
cannabis

$300
$45
$345



section 4 (2)

Sale of e-substance containing non-therapeutic nicotine and
cannabis

$300
$45
$345



section 5 (1)

Fail to give notice of intent as required before sale of
restricted e-substance

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (1)

Sale of e-substance containing non-therapeutic nicotine in
concentrations greater than 20 mg/mL

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (2) (a)

Sale of vapour product refill container of greater than 30 mL
capacity

$500
$75
$575



section 6 (2) (b)

Sale of vapour product cartridge of greater than 2 mL capacity

$500
$75
$575



section 7 (1)

Sale of flavoured restricted e-substance from premises where
minors are permitted access

$500
$75
$575



section 10 (1)

Fail to report product information as required before sale of
restricted e-substance

$500
$75
$575



section 10 (2)

Fail to report new information when and as required

$400
$60
$460



section 11 (1)

Fail to report manufacturing information as required

$400
$60
$460



section 11 (2)

Fail to report manufacturing information at least 6 weeks before
sale of restricted e-substance

$400
$60
$460



section 12 (2)

Fail to report sales information before January 15

$350
$53
$403



section 12 (3)

Fail to report sales information as required

$350
$53
$403








Food Premises Regulation, B.C. Reg. 210/99




section 6 (1)

Operation of unapproved food premises

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (1)

Operation of food service establishment without a permit

$100
$15
$115



section 10 (1)

Fail to have adequately trained operator

$200
$30
$230



section 10 (2)

Fail to have adequately trained employee

$200
$30
$230



section 11

Fail to obtain food from an approved source

$200
$30
$230



section 12

Fail to protect food from contamination and handle food in
sanitary manner

$300
$45
$345



section 13
Sale of contaminated food
$300
$45
$345



section 14 (1)

Fail to process food in safe manner

$300
$45
$345



section 14 (2)

Fail to store or display potentially hazardous food at a safe
temperature

$300
$45
$345



section 15 (1)

Sale of previously served unprotected food

$200
$30
$230



section 15 (2)

Sale of previously served potentially hazardous food

$200
$30
$230



section 16

Fail to ensure proper construction, condition or use of equipment,
utensils and food contact surfaces

$200
$30
$230



section 17

Fail to maintain premises, equipment and utensils in sanitary
condition

$200
$30
$230



section 19 (1)

Fail to ensure adequate refrigeration and hot holding equipment

$300
$45
$345



section 19 (2)

Fail to ensure refrigeration and hot holding equipment has
accurate thermometer

$300
$45
$345



section 21 (1)

Fail to ensure proper employee hygiene

$200
$30
$230



section 21 (2)

Fail to ensure no employee smoking around food

$200
$30
$230



section 21 (3)

Fail to ensure adequate employee handwashing

$200
$30
$230



section 21 (4)

Fail to supply and maintain adequate handwashing stations

$200
$30
$230



section 22

Fail to exclude infected food handlers

$100
$15
$115



section 23 (2)

Fail to have written food handling procedures

$200
$30
$230



section 24 (1)

Fail to have written sanitation procedures

$200
$30
$230



section 25 (1)
Fail to restrict animals
$100
$15
$115



section 26

Fail to ensure premises are free of pests

$200
$30
$230



section 27

Fail to ensure safe storage of chemicals

$200
$30
$230








Health Hazards Regulation, B.C. Reg. 216/2011




section 7

Fail to provide sufficient potable drinking water

$100
$15
$115








Industrial Camps Health Regulation, B.C. Reg. 427/83




section 10 (a)

Fail to report outbreak of gastrointestinal upset

$100
$15
$115








Public Health Act Transitional Regulation, B.C. Reg. 51/2009




section 15
Fail to notify of a discharge
$200
$30
$230








Regulated Activities Regulation, B.C. Reg. 161/2011




section 3.3 (a)

Unlawfully permit minor to use tanning equipment

$300
$45
$345



section 3.3 (b)
Fail to post sign as required
$300
$45
$345








Sewerage System Regulation, B.C. Reg. 326/2004




section 12 (a)

Knowingly make a false or misleading statement

$500
$75
$575



section 12 (b)

Construct a sewerage system without proper qualifications

$600
$90
$690



section 12 (c)

Construct a holding tank or sewerage system in a manner that
causes a health hazard

$500
$75
$575



section 12 (c)

Maintain a holding tank or sewerage system in a manner that causes
a health hazard

$300
$45
$345



section 12 (d)

Fail to comply with a requirement or order

$500
$75
$575



section 12 (e)

Operate a holding tank or sewerage system without a permit or
letter of certification

$600
$90
$690








Safe Streets Act




section 2 (1)

Soliciting in an aggressive manner

$100
$15
$115



section 2 (2)

Aggressive soliciting while engaging in a named activity

$100
$15
$115



section 3 (2)
Soliciting to a captive audience
$75
$11
$86



section 3 (5)
Soliciting a person in a vehicle
$75
$11
$86








Security Services Act




section 2 (a)
No valid worker licence
$250
$38
$288



section 5 (4) (b)

Fail to comply with worker licence condition

$100
$15
$115



section 7 (2)

Use or display worker licence issued to another individual

$250
$38
$288



section 7 (3)
Fail to surrender worker licence
$100
$15
$115



section 8
Fail to produce worker licence
$100
$15
$115



section 9 (a)

Worker fail to report change of address

$50
$8
$58



section 9 (b)

Worker fail to report criminal charge laid

$500
$75
$575



section 9 (c)

Worker fail to report criminal conviction

$500
$75
$575



section 11 (2)
No valid business licence
$500
$75
$575



section 16 (5) (b)

Fail to comply with business licence condition

$250
$38
$288



section 17 (1)

Improperly display business licence

$250
$38
$288



section 18 (1)
Use of unlawful business name
$250
$38
$288



section 18 (2)

Display business licence issued to another person

$250
$38
$288



section 19 (2)

Use business licence issued to another person

$250
$38
$288



section 19 (3)

Fail to surrender business licence and duplicates

$250
$38
$288



section 20

Business employ or engage unlicensed individual

$500
$75
$575



section 21 (a)
Fail to maintain book or record
$500
$75
$575



section 21 (b)
Fail to carry insurance
$250
$38
$288



section 22 (1) (a)

Business fail to report change of address

$50
$8
$58



section 22 (1) (b)

Fail to report change in ownership or management

$250
$38
$288



section 22 (1) (c)

Business fail to report criminal charge laid

$500
$75
$575



section 22 (1) (d)

Business fail to report criminal conviction

$500
$75
$575



section 22 (1) (e)

Business fail to report criminal charge or conviction against
worker

$500
$75
$575



section 22 (2)

Fail to report change to disclosure

$250
$38
$288



section 24

Fail to notify clients regarding agreement

$250
$38
$288



section 25 (3)

Unauthorized production, transfer or loan of key

$500
$75
$575



section 25 (4)

Unauthorized possession of locksmith's instruments

$500
$75
$575



section 26 (1)
Carry unauthorized firearm
$500
$75
$575



section 27

Employ or engage unlicensed individual

$500
$75
$575



section 44 (1.1)

Business licensee employing unlicenced individual to sell body
armour contrary to section 8 (3) of the
Body Armour Control Act

$500
$75
$575



section 44 (2)

Supply false or misleading information

$500
$75
$575



section 44 (4)

Obstruct inspector or peace officer

$500
$75
$575



section 44 (5)
Unlawful use of terms
$250
$38
$288








Security Services Regulation, B.C. Reg. 207/2008




section 9 (1)
Unlawful advertising
$100
$15
$115



section 9 (2)
Unlawful use of logo or insignia
$100
$15
$115



section 10 (1)
Unlawful use of vehicle
$100
$15
$115



section 11 (1)
Unlawful use of equipment
$500
$75
$575



section 11 (3)

Fail to surrender unlawful equipment

$500
$75
$575



section 12 (1)
Wear unlawful uniform
$100
$15
$115



section 12 (3) (b)
Use unlawful badge
$100
$15
$115



section 12 (3) (c)
Wear unlawful equipment belt
$100
$15
$115



section 12 (4)

Wear uniform as private investigator

$100
$15
$115



section 12 (5)

Fail to wear uniform as armoured car guard service

$100
$15
$115



section 13 (1)
Unlawful use of dogs
$500
$75
$575









South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act





Greater Vancouver Transit Conduct and Safety Regulation, B.C. Reg.
87/99




section 5 (2)
Improper use of proof of payment
$150
$23
$173



section 5 (3)
Illegally sell proof of payment
$150
$23
$173



section 7 (a)

Illegally park vehicle on transit property

$50
$8
$58



section 7 (a)

Illegally operate vehicle on transit property

$50
$8
$58



section 7 (b)
Illegally enter tracks
$75
$11
$86



section 7 (b)
Illegally enter dock
$75
$11
$86



section 7 (b)
Illegally enter bridge
$75
$11
$86



section 7 (b)
Illegally enter guideway
$75
$11
$86



section 7 (b)
Illegally enter tunnel
$75
$11
$86



section 7 (b)
Illegally enter road
$75
$11
$86



section 7 (b)
Illegally enter right of way
$75
$11
$86



section 7 (c)

Illegally go on or through transit property

$75
$11
$86



section 8 (1)
Improper use of alarm
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (1)
Improper use of emergency device
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (2) (a)

Disobey posted rules after using emergency device

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (2) (a)

Disobey sign after using emergency device

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (2) (b)

Use emergency device — fail to report

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (a)
Place object (obstacle) on tracks
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (a)
Place object (obstacle) on dock
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (a)
Place object (obstacle) on bridge
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (a)

Place object (obstacle) on guideway

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (a)
Place object (obstacle) in tunnel
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (a)
Place object (obstacle) on road
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (a)

Place object (obstacle) on right of way

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (b)
Damage equipment on vehicle
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (b)
Damage equipment on property
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (b)
Tamper with equipment on vehicle
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (b)
Tamper with equipment on property
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (b)
Remove equipment on vehicle
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (b)
Remove equipment on property
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (c)
Prevent operation of vehicle
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (c)

Interfere with operation of vehicle

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (d)

Improperly occupy place in vehicle

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (e)
Impede employee operating vehicle
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (f)
Prevent or delay closing of door
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (g)

Extend part of body or object through window

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (h)

Ride, stand or hold onto exterior of vehicle

$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3) (i)
Improper use of emergency exit
$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (a)
Illegally force fare gate open
$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (a)
Illegally force fare gate closed
$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (b)

Illegally prevent fare gate from closing

$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (c)

Illegally damage electronic component in or on fare gate

$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (c)

Illegally damage electronic component in or on ancillary structure

$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (c)

Illegally tamper with electronic component in or on fare gate

$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (c)

Illegally tamper with electronic component in or on ancillary
structure

$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (c)

Illegally remove electronic component in or on fare gate

$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (c)

Illegally remove electronic component in or on ancillary structure

$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (d)
Illegally go over fare gate
$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (d)
Illegally go under fare gate
$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (d)
Illegally go around fare gate
$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (d)

Illegally go over ancillary structure

$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (d)

Illegally go under ancillary structure

$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (d)

Illegally go around ancillary structure

$150
$23
$173



section 8 (4) (e)

Illegally go through open fare gate that was not opened by that
person

$150
$23
$173



section 8.1 (a)

Make false or misleading statement

$150
$23
$173



section 8.1 (a)

Provide false or misleading information

$150
$23
$173



section 8.1 (b)
Obstruct fare officer
$150
$23
$173



section 9 (2)
Fail to obey refusal of access
$100
$15
$115



section 9 (3)
Fail to obey order to leave
$100
$15
$115



section 9 (3.1)
Fail to obey non-entry order
$100
$15
$115








Tobacco and Vapour Products Control Act




section 2 (2)

Sell tobacco or vapour product to person under 19

$500
$75
$575



section 2 (3)

Sell tobacco products from open package

$500
$75
$575



section 2 (4)

Sell tobacco or vapour product where prohibition order applies

$500
$75
$575



section 2.1 (1)

Sell tobacco or vapour product in prohibited place

$500
$75
$575



section 2.2 (2)

Use tobacco and hold lighted tobacco on school property

$50
$8
$58



section 2.2 (3.1)

Hold activated e-cigarette on school property

$50
$8
$58



section 2.2 (4)

Permit tobacco or vapour product use on school property

$500
$75
$575



section 2.21 (2)

Hold lighted tobacco or activated e-cigarette on health board
property

$50
$8
$58



section 2.3 (1)

Hold lighted tobacco or activated e-cigarette in prohibited place

$50
$8
$58



section 2.3 (3)

Permit tobacco or vapour product use in prohibited place

$500
$75
$575



section 2.3 (4)

Permit tobacco or vapour product use in workplace

$500
$75
$575



section 2.4 (1) (a)

Display tobacco or vapour products in prohibited manner

$500
$75
$575



section 2.4 (1) (b)

Promote tobacco or vapour product in prohibited manner

$500
$75
$575



section 10.1 (a)

Fail to display prohibition order sign

$500
$75
$575



section 10.1 (b)

Fail to display prohibition sign in accordance with requirements

$500
$75
$575








Tobacco and Vapour Products Control Regulation, B.C. Reg. 232/2007







section 4

Sell cigarettes in packages containing fewer than 20

$500
$75
$575



section 5 (1), (2), (3) or (5)

Fail to display warning as required

$300
$45
$345



section 5 (4) (a)
Fail to affix warning as required
$300
$45
$345








Transport of Dangerous Goods Act




section 4 (2)

Non-compliance with terms of permit

$500
$75
$575



section 5

Non-compliance with safety requirements

$500
$75
$575



section 10 (a)

Fail to comply with inspector's request

$500
$75
$575



section 10 (b)
Make false statement
$500
$75
$575



section 10 (c)
Unauthorized interference
$500
$75
$575



section 10 (d)
Obstruct inspector
$500
$75
$575



section 21 (1)
Fail to report escape
$500
$75
$575



section 21 (2)
Fail to mitigate danger
$500
$75
$575




Every provision of the
Transport of Dangerous Goods Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence, other than
those specifically enumerated in this Schedule

$200
$30
$230








Transportation of Dangerous Goods Regulation of Canada
(SOR/2001-286 as adopted by B.C. Reg. 203/85, the Transport of
Dangerous Goods Regulation)




section 1.6

Transport dangerous goods in excess of quantity limits set out in
column 9 of Schedule 1

$500
$75
$575



section 1.7 (b)

Transport dangerous goods without required shipping document

$500
$75
$575



section 1.8 (a)

Transport explosives in a manner prohibited by the Regulations

$500
$75
$575



section 1.16 (2) (a)

Transport forbidden dangerous goods

$500
$75
$575



section 3.2 (4)

Fail to keep documents in a specified location

$200
$30
$230



section 3.5

Transport dangerous goods without required information on shipping
document

$300
$45
$345



section 4.1

Transport dangerous goods without proper dangerous goods safety
marks

$500
$75
$575



section 4.2
Display misleading safety marks
$500
$75
$575



section 5.1 (1)

Transport dangerous goods in a means of containment not permitted
by the Regulations

$500
$75
$575



section 5.1 (2)

Transport dangerous goods in a standardized means of containment
not in standard

$500
$75
$575



section 5.1 (3)

Transport dangerous goods in a means of containment not filled,
closed, secured and maintained to prevent accidental release

$500
$75
$575



section 5.3

Fail to display visible and legible certification safety marks

$200
$30
$230



section 5.4

Load and secure dangerous goods in a means of containment in a
manner that could lead to an accidental release

$500
$75
$575



section 5.5

Fill means of containment with dangerous goods in excess of
specified limits

$400
$60
$460



section 5.7

Transport explosives in the same means of transport that are not
in accordance with the compatibility table

$500
$75
$575



section 5.9

Transport explosives in a net explosive quantity that exceeds that
permitted by the Regulations

$500
$75
$575



section 5.10

Transport Class 2 dangerous goods in improper means of containment

$500
$75
$575



section 6.1 (1)

Transport dangerous goods without holding training certificate

$500
$75
$575



section 6.1 (2)

Direct untrained person to transport dangerous goods

$500
$75
$575



section 6.6
Fail to retain proof of training
$200
$30
$230



section 6.8

Fail to produce training certificate immediately on request

$200
$30
$230



section 8.1

Fail to immediately report an accidental release

$500
$75
$575









Every provision of the regulations made under the
Transport of Dangerous Goods Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence, other than
those specifically enumerated in this Schedule

$200
$30
$230









Transportation Act




Section 36 (2)
Fail to pay a toll or charge
$100
$15
$115



Section 49 (1) (a)

Unauthorized construction or re-opening

$100
$15
$115



Section 49 (1) (b)
Unauthorized access
$100
$15
$115



Section 62 (1)

Unauthorized use or occupation of a highway

$100
$15
$115



Section 64 (1) (a)

Interference with a provincial public undertaking

$100
$15
$115



Section 64 (1) (b)

Attaching object to a provincial public undertaking

$100
$15
$115



Section 68 (1)
Abandoning object on a highway
$100
$15
$115



Section 72 (1)

Unauthorized use or occupation of a concession highway

$100
$15
$115



Section 79 (1) (b)

Fail to comply with notice under section 16 (1)

$150
$23
$173



Section 79 (1) (b)

Fail to comply with notice under section 50 (1)

$150
$23
$173



Section 79 (1) (b)

Fail to comply with notice under section 55 (1)

$150
$23
$173



Section 79 (1) (b)

Fail to comply with notice under section 63 (1)

$150
$23
$173



Section 79 (1) (b)

Fail to comply with notice under section 65 (1)

$150
$23
$173



Section 79 (1) (b)

Fail to comply with a notice under section 68 (2)

$150
$23
$173



Section 79 (1) (c)

Improper highway use by extraordinary traffic

$300
$45
$345



Section 79 (1) (d)

Obstruction of authorized activity

$250
$38
$288



Section 91 (2)

Fail to pay toll on Coquihalla Highway

$100
$15
$115








Trespass Act




section 2 (1)

Trespass on enclosed land or premises, or engage

in prohibited activity

$100
$15
$115



section 2 (3) (c) or (d)

Fail to leave premises or stop prohibited activity,

or re-enter premises or resume prohibited activity

$100
$15
$115



section 5 (2)
Remove, alter or deface a sign
$100
$15
$115



section 6 (2)
Fail to give name or address
$100
$15
$115



section 6 (3)

Remain on premises after failure to give name or address

$100
$15
$115








Water Sustainability Act




section 106 (2) (b) (i)

Divert water from a stream or aquifer without lawful authority

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (2) (b) (ii)

Make changes in and about a stream without lawful authority

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (2) (b) (iii)

Without lawful authority, willfully destroy, damage or interfere
with authorized works or works constructed in accordance with the
regulations

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (2) (b) (iv)

Without lawful authority lay or cause to be laid a pipe or
construct or cause to be constructed a ditch or other conduit for
the purpose of connecting with the works of an authorization
holder

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (2) (b) (v)

Construct, maintain, operate or use works without lawful authority

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (2) (b) (vi)

Open or close a hydrant used for fire protection, or obstruct free
access to or damage a hydrant stop cock or hydrant accessory,
without lawful authority

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (2) (b) (vii)

Without lawful authority engage in the business of operating works
to carry water for others

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (2) (c)

Willfully destroy a notice posted by an applicant, an engineer, an
officer or a water bailiff

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (2) (d)

Fail to do anything in accordance with the regulations that is
required under the Act to be done in accordance with the
regulations

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (2) (e) (i)

Destroy, injure or tamper with works belonging to or placed by an
applicant, authorization or change approval holder or a person
acting on behalf of the government of British Columbia or Canada

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (2) (e) (ii)

Destroy, injure or tamper with a gauge, weir, measuring device,
structure, appliance, cable, boat, instrument or tool belonging to
or placed by an applicant, authorization or change approval holder
or a person acting on behalf of the government of British Columbia
or Canada

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (a)

Divert or use water contrary to section 6 (1), except as
authorized under section 6 (2), (3) or (4) or an order

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (b)

Contravene section 6 (2) (a) by failing to restore the stream flow
to its channel after diverting for firefighting purposes

$350
$53
$403



section 106 (3) (c)

Without holding an authorization, divert recorded water from an
aquifer or a stream for prospecting for a mineral or from a stream
for domestic purpose when the regulations require an authorization

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (d)

Divert unrecorded water from an aquifer or a stream for
prospecting for a mineral or from a stream for domestic purpose
when prohibited by regulation

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (e)

Under section 6 (4) divert or store water from an aquifer when the
regulations provide that section 6 (4) does not apply to the
person

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (f)

Divert, store or use water under the regulations when prohibited
by regulation

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (g)

Divert more water than the person is authorized to divert under
licence or use approval

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (h)

Divert water for a water use purpose not specified in person's
licence or use approval

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (i)

Divert water when prohibited by licence or use approval from
diverting water

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (j) (i)

Construct, operate or use works that are not authorized by a
licence, use approval, change approval, permit, drilling
authorization or by another enactment to divert, store or use
water

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (j) (ii)

Construct, operate or use works that are not constructed, operated
or used in accordance with the regulations to divert, store or use
water

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (k)

Breach a term or condition of an authorization, change approval,
permit or drilling authorization that does not relate to a
sensitive stream

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (l)

Fail to comply with direction under section 23 (3) within the time
specified

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (m)

Fail to comply with a direction under section 23 (3) (a)

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (n)

Flood Crown land, or construct, operate or maintain works on Crown
land, without a permit under the Act or permission under other
enactment, contrary to section 24 (2)

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (o)

Fail to give notice of disposition of appurtenancy, contrary to
section 25 (2)

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (p)

Fail to construct, operate, inspect, maintain or repair works as
required under section 29 (2)

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (q)

Fail to deactivate or decommission works as and when required
under section 29 (3)

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (3) (r)

Fail to make beneficial use of water diverted by the person

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (a)

Fail to submit beneficial use declaration when directed under
section 30 (2)

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (b)

Fail to provide information required under section 30 (3) or
results of water conservation audit required under section 30 (4)

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (c)

Fail to take measures as and when required under order under
section 30 (5)

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (d)

Fail to provide information as and when directed under section 30
(6)

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (e)

Fail to provide information required under section 30 (3) or
results of water conservation audit required under section 30 (4)
at the time specified

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (f)

Fail to comply with terms and conditions on which abandonment
approved under section 31

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (g)

Interfere with works or licensee on land in respect of which
licensee is diligently prosecuting expropriation

$350
$53
$403



section 106 (4) (h)

Fail to give notice in accordance with section 34 before altering,
moving, filling in or otherwise interfering with works

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (i)

Fail to take steps to expropriate land when required

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (j)

Fail to comply with an order under section 36 for joint
construction or joint use of works

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (k)

Fail to comply with terms and conditions of order under section 36
for joint use of works

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (l)

Fail to comply with the terms and conditions under which an
extension of rights is authorized under section 37

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (m)

Fail to pay amount owing to a water bailiff under and in
accordance with section 38

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (n)

Contravene section 46 (1) by introducing, allowing or causing to
be introduced matter or substance into stream in prohibited
quantity or manner

$350
$53
$403



section 106 (4) (o)

Construct a well, close a well or install a well pump or wellhead
without holding the required qualifications

$350
$53
$403



section 106 (4) (o)

Disinfect a well without holding the required qualifications

$100
$15
$115



section 106 (4) (o)

Perform an activity in relation to a well, other than
constructing, closing or disinfecting a well or installing a well
pump or wellhead, without holding the required qualifications

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (p)

Fail to comply with section 49 (4)

$500
$75
$575



section 106 (4) (q) (i)

Fail to comply with the applicable regulations when constructing
or decommissioning a well

$350
$53
$403



section 106 (4) (q) (i)

Fail to comply with the applicable regulations when deactivating a
well

$100
$15
$115



section 106 (4) (q) (i)

Fail to comply with the applicable regulations when disinfecting a
well

$100
$15
$115



section 106 (4) (q) (ii)

Fail to comply with the applicable regulations when installing a
well pump or wellhead

$350
$53
$403



section 106 (4) (q) (ii)

Fail to comply with the applicable regulations when performing
activities in relation to a well pump or a wellhead or conducting
a flow test or disinfecting a well pump

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (r)

Fail to provide proof of qualifications when required

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (s)

Fail to carry the prescribed amount of liability insurance when
required

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (4) (t)

Fail to provide proof of liability insurance when required

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (5) (a)

Fail to stop or bring artesian flow under control or give notice
as and when required

$350
$53
$403



section 106 (5) (b)

Fail to engage a qualified well driller or a professional or to
ensure that that person stops or brings artesian flow under
control

$350
$53
$403



section 106 (5) (c)

Fail to secure well cap or well cover or removes well cap or well
cover when not authorized

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (5) (d)

Fail to replace well cap or well cover when required

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (5) (e)

Fail to attach identification plate to a well or wellhead or to
remove identification plate when required

$100
$15
$115



section 106 (5) (f)

Destroy, injure or tamper with identification plate attached to a
well or wellhead

$100
$15
$115



section 106 (5) (g)

Fail to deactivate well when required

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (5) (g)

Fail to decommission a well when required

$350
$53
$403



section 106 (5) (h)

Fail to maintain, retain, produce or submit a well report when
required

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (5) (i)

Operate a well contrary to section 58

$350
$53
$403



section 106 (5) (j)

Perform an activity for which a drilling authorization is required
without holding a drilling authorization

$350
$53
$403



section 106 (5) (k)

Introduce, allow or cause to be introduced into a well anything
contrary to section 59 (1)

$350
$53
$403



section 106 (5) (l)

Fail to take or cause to be taken and analyzed a groundwater
sample when required

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (5) (m)

Tamper with a groundwater sample required to be taken under
section 63

$500
$75
$575



section 106 (5) (n)

Fail to submit the results of a groundwater analysis as and when
required

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (5) (o)

Fail to comply, other than willfully, with an order of the
comptroller, a water manager or an engineer

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (5) (p)

Fail to keep information and records as required under section 116
(1)

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (5) (q)

Fail to keep information and records for the prescribed period
under section 116 (1)

$100
$15
$115



section 106 (5) (r)

Fail to produce records when required under section 116 (2) (a)

$100
$15
$115



section 106 (5) (s)

Fail to provide records to persons as required under section 116
(2) (b)

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (5) (t)

Fail to install works, prepare reports or submit reports as
required under section 116 (3)

$200
$30
$230



section 106 (5) (u)

Knowingly contravene section 116 (5)

$500
$75
$575



section 107 (1) (a)

Fail to comply with a term or condition of an authorization,
change approval, permit or drilling authorization that relates to
a sensitive stream

$350
$53
$403



section 107 (1) (b)

Construct a bank-to-bank dam on a protected river

$500
$75
$575



section 107 (1) (c)

Fail to comply with an order under section 47 (1) or (2) in
relation to foreign matter in a stream

$500
$75
$575



section 107 (1) (d)

Fail to comply with an order under section 60 (1), (2), (3) or (4)
in relation to foreign matter in an well

$500
$75
$575



section 107 (1) (e)

Contravene a fish population protection order under section 88

$500
$75
$575



section 107 (1) (f)

Construct, place, maintain or make use of an obstruction in the
channel of a stream without lawful authority

$200
$30
$230



section 107 (1) (g)

Drill or alter a well, install a well pump or conduct a flow test
when prohibited

$500
$75
$575



section 107 (1) (i)

Willfully contravene an order of the comptroller, a water manager
or an engineer

$200
$30
$230



section 107 (1) (j)

Willfully interfere with works in respect of which the
comptroller, a water manager, an engineer, an officer or a water
bailiff has taken action

$500
$75
$575







Dam Safety Regulation



section 28 (1) (a)

Fail to determine or redetermine the classification of a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (1) (b)

Fail to submit to a dam safety officer a record setting out a
proposed classification or new classification for a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (1) (c)

Fail to properly inspect, maintain or repair a dam or related
works

$350
$53
$403



section 28 (1) (d)

Fail to exercise reasonable care to avoid risk of significant harm

$350
$53
$403



section 28 (1) (e)

Fail to exercise reasonable care to safeguard a dam from
unauthorized operation

$350
$53
$403



section 28 (2) (a)

Fail to review or revise an operation, maintenance and
surveillance manual

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (2) (b)

Fail to submit to a dam safety officer a record relating to an
operation, maintenance and surveillance manual

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (2) (c)

Fail to follow an operation, maintenance and surveillance manual

$350
$53
$403



section 28 (2) (d)

Fail to deliver a record to a local emergency authority

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (2) (e)

Fail to review or revise a dam emergency plan

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (2) (f)

Fail to submit to a dam safety officer a record relating to a dam
emergency plan

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (2) (g)

Fail to prepare or submit to a dam safety officer or deliver to a
local emergency authority a record relating to the emergency
contact for a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (2) (h)

Fail to review or revise a record relating to the emergency
contact for a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (2) (i)

Fail to submit to a dam safety officer a record relating the
emergency contact for a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (2) (j)

Fail to ensure that information signs are posted

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (3) (a)

Fail to submit to a dam safety officer a record respecting an
activity at or near a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (3) (b)

Fail to notify a dam safety officer of a potential safety hazard

$350
$53
$403



section 28 (3) (c)

Fail to give notice of a proposed activity at a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (3) (d)

Fail to prepare or submit to a dam safety officer a plan for an
activity at a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (3) (e)

Fail to implement a plan relating to a potential safety hazard

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (3) (f)

Begin an activity at a dam before a plan has been accepted by a
dam safety officer

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (3) (g)

Fail to ensure that an invasive investigation is supervised by a
qualified engineering professional

$350
$53
$403



section 28 (4) (a)

Fail to conduct a site surveillance of a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (4) (b)

Fail to conduct a formal inspection of a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (4) (c)

Fail to test the operation of mechanical components of a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (4) (d)

Fail to test the operation of electrical or communication
equipment

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (4) (e)

Fail to record the results of a site surveillance, formal
inspection or test

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (4) (f)

Fail to install, maintain or replace instrumentation

$350
$53
$403



section 28 (4) (g)

Fail to collect, analyze or interpret instrumentation readings

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (4) (h)

Fail to submit to a dam safety officer record or a plan relating
to instrumentation

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (4) (i)

Install, modify, replace or remove instrumentation before a notice
or plan has been accepted by a dam safety officer

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (4) (j)

Fail to ensure that a qualified engineering professional carries
out a review of and prepares a report on the safety of a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (4) (k)

Fail to submit to a dam safety officer a report on the safety of a
dam

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (4) (l)

Fail to submit to a dam safety officer information or a record

$200
$30
$230



section 28 (4) (m)

Fail to submit to the comptroller or a water manager a copy of a
report of an independent expert

$200
$30
$230



section 29 (1) (a)

Fail to follow a dam emergency plan

$500
$75
$575



section 29 (1) (b)

Fail to operate a dam as required or initiate a remedial action at
a dam

$500
$75
$575



section 29 (1) (c)

Fail to inform or advise a person or other entity respecting
hazardous conditions

$500
$75
$575



section 29 (1) (d)

Fail to inform the comptroller, a water manager or a dam safety
officer respecting hazardous conditions

$500
$75
$575



section 37 (1) (a)

Fail to determine or redetermine the classification of a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 37 (1) (b)

Fail to submit to a dam safety officer a record setting out a
proposed classification or new classification for a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 37 (1) (c)

Fail to prepare an operation, maintenance and surveillance manual

$200
$30
$230



section 37 (1) (d)

Fail to submit to a dam safety officer an operation, maintenance
and surveillance manual

$200
$30
$230



section 37 (1) (e)

Fail to prepare a dam emergency plan

$200
$30
$230



section 37 (1) (f)

Fail to submit to a dam safety officer a dam emergency plan

$200
$30
$230



section 37 (1) (g)

Fail to review or revise a dam emergency plan

$200
$30
$230



section 37 (1) (h)

Fail to submit to a dam safety officer a record relating to a dam
emergency plan

$200
$30
$230



section 37 (1) (i)

Fail to deliver a record to a local emergency authority

$200
$30
$230



section 37 (2) (a)

Fail to conduct a site surveillance of a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 37 (2) (b)

Fail to conduct a formal inspection of a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 37 (2) (c)

Fail to test the operation of mechanical components of a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 37 (2) (d)

Fail to test the operation of electrical or communication
equipment

$200
$30
$230



section 37 (2) (e)

Fail to collect, analyze or interpret instrumentation readings

$200
$30
$230



section 37 (2) (f)

Fail to ensure that a qualified engineering professional carries
out a review of and prepares a report on the safety of a dam

$200
$30
$230



section 37 (2) (g)

Fail to submit to a dam safety officer a report on the safety of a
dam

$200
$30
$230








Groundwater Protection Regulation




section 82 (1) (a)

Fail to advise comptroller of changes to information in the
register

$200
$30
$230



section 82 (1) (b)

Fail to advise comptroller of ceasing to work in Canada as a well
driller or well pump installer

$200
$30
$230



section 82 (2)
Fail to remove a well pit
$350
$53
$403



section 82 (3)

Fail to upgrade or replace existing hand pumps in water supply
wells

$350
$53
$403



section 82 (4) (a)

Fail to protect a well identification plate from physical damage

$100
$15
$115



section 82 (4) (b)

Fail to ensure that a well identification plate remains securely
attached to the well and plainly visible

$100
$15
$115



section 82 (4) (c)

Fail to report the loss or damage of a well identification plate
to the comptroller and request a replacement

$100
$15
$115



section 82 (4) (d)

Fail to attach a replacement well identification plate as required

$100
$15
$115



section 82 (5) (a)

Fail to ensure that the surface of the ground immediately around
the wellhead of a well remains sloped to prevent ponding around
the wellhead

$200
$30
$230



section 82 (5) (b)

Fail to ensure that access to the well and wellhead is maintained
for inspection purposes

$200
$30
$230



section 82 (5) (c)

Fail to ensure that area immediately around the wellhead is kept
clear of obstructions

$200
$30
$230



section 82 (6)

Fail to ensure that water is conveyed away from a well sump, well
pit or pump house as required

$350
$53
$403



section 82 (7) (a)

Fail to comply with the storage requirements by leaving, storing
or allowing to accumulate foreign matter within 3 m of the
wellhead of a water supply well

$350
$53
$403



section 82 (7) (b)

Fail to ensure that foreign matter left, stored or allowed to
accumulate more than 3 m from the wellhead of a water supply well
does not travel to within 3 m of the wellhead

$350
$53
$403



section 82 (8)

Fail to configure a wellhead or equip a well as required

$350
$53
$403



section 82 (9) (a)

Fail to ensure that any equipment installed to control artesian
flow and prevent flow of water back into the well is maintained as
required

$350
$53
$403



section 82 (9) (b)

Fail to ensure that any equipment installed to control artesian
flow and prevent flow of water back into the well is protected
from damage caused by freezing

$350
$53
$403



section 82 (9) (c)

Fail to ensure that any equipment installed to control artesian
flow and prevent flow of water back into the well is not removed
except as permitted

$350
$53
$403



section 82 (9) (d)

Fail to ensure that any equipment installed to control artesian
flow and prevent flow of water back into the well that is removed
for permitted purposes is replaced as and when required

$350
$53
$403



section 82 (10)

Fail to complete and submit a well identification report

$200
$30
$230








Water Sustainability Regulation




section 54 (1) (a)

Fail to report to British Columbia Energy Regulator within 72
hours, contrary to section 39 (6) (a)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (1) (b)

Fail to take an action ordered under the
Energy Resource Activities Act
, contrary to section 39 (6) (b)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (1) (c)

Fail to provide information on request of engineer, officer or
habitat officer, contrary to section 41 (1)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (1) (d)

Fail to complete authorized change in and about a stream without
delay, contrary to section 41 (2)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (1) (e)

Fail to ensure authorized change is designed, constructed and
maintained to not pose significant risk of harm, contrary to
section 41 (3)

$350
$53
$403



section 54 (1) (f)

Fail to report non-compliance, contrary to section 42 (1) (a)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (1) (g)

Fail to take measures specified by an engineer, contrary to
section 42 (1) (b)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (1) (h)

Fail to comply with terms and conditions of habitat officer,
contrary to section 42 (1) (c)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (1) (i)

Disturb or remove stable natural materials or vegetation, contrary
to section 43 (1) (b)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (1) (j)

Fail to remove temporary material and works, contrary to section
43 (1) (c)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (1) (k)

Fail to report damage, contrary to section 44 (3) (a)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (1) (l)

Fail to restore and repair aquatic ecosystem, contrary to section
44 (3) (b)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (1) (m)

Adversely affect water supply or works of other person, contrary
to section 45 (1)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (1) (n)

Fail to give notice, contrary to section 45 (2) (a)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (1) (o)

Fail to provide adequate water supply, contrary to section 45 (2)
(b)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (2) (a)

Fail to remove pump, equipment or material, contrary to section 48
(7)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (2) (b)

Divert water from a stream when prohibited, contrary to section 49
(1)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (2) (c)

Cause a disturbance of the stream channel or stable natural
materials, contrary to section 49 (3) (a)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (2) (d)

Cause significant risk of harm to public safety, environment, land
or property, contrary to section 49 (3) (b)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (2) (e)

Adversely affect the water supply or works of person lawfully
diverting and using water, contrary to section 50

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (3) (a)

Divert and use deep groundwater for a water purpose use other than
oil and gas purpose, contrary to section 52 (2) (a)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (3) (a)

Divert and use deep groundwater without a well permit, contrary to
section 52 (2) (b)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (3) (a)

Divert recorded water when diverting deep groundwater, contrary to
section 52 (2) (c)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (3) (a)

Divert or use deep groundwater outside the subject area, contrary
to section 52 (2) (d)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (3) (a)

Adversely affect water supply of another person when diverting
water, contrary to section 52 (1) (e)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (3) (b)

Fail to cease diversion and use when adversely affecting rights of
other person, contrary to section 53 (2) (a)

$200
$30
$230



section 54 (3) (b)

Fail to cease diversion and use when ordered, contrary to section
53 (2) (b)

$200
$30
$230








Wildfire Act




section 2
Fail to report fire
$333
$50
$383



section 3 (1)

Drop, release or mishandle burning substance

$500
$75
$575



section 3 (2)

Fail to extinguish burning substance

$500
$75
$575



section 5 (1)

Light, fuel or use fire against regulations

$1 000
$150
$1 150



section 5 (2) (a)
Fail to extinguish fire
$500
$75
$575



section 5 (2) (b)
Fail to report fire
$500
$75
$575



section 6 (1)

Light, fuel or use fire against regulations, industrial

$1 000
$150
$1 150



section 7 (1)
Fail to assess fire hazard
$667
$100
$767



section 7 (2)
Fail to abate fire hazard
$1 000
$150
$1 150



section 7 (4)

Fail to comply with fire hazard abatement order

$1 000
$150
$1 150



section 10 (3)

Light, fuel or use fire against restriction

$1 000
$150
$1 150



section 10 (4)

Fail to comply with fire restriction

$1 000
$150
$1 150



section 11 (2)

Fail to comply with restricted area requirements

$1 000
$150
$1 150



section 12 (2)

Fail to comply with order restricting activity or use

$1 000
$150
$1 150



section 13 (2)

Fail to comply with order to leave specified area

$1 000
$150
$1 150



section 16 (2)

Fail to comply with fire control order

$500
$75
$575



section 22 (2)
Fail to stop vehicle or vessel
$500
$75
$575



section 22 (3)
Fail to provide documents
$333
$50
$383



section 56 (2)

Intentional interference, non-compliance or false statement

$1 000
$150
$1 150








Wildfire Regulation, B.C. Reg. 38/2005




section 5

Fail to have sufficient fire tools

$267
$40
$307



section 6 (3)

Fail to comply with high risk activity restrictions, and keep at
activity site fire fighting hand tools and adequate fire
suppression system

$400
$60
$460



section 6 (4)

Fail to meet fire watcher requirements

$400
$60
$460



section 8

Operate engine contrary to regulations

$400
$60
$460



section 9

Fail to meet fire prevention measures — railway operations

$667
$100
$767



section 10

Fail to meet fire prevention measures — transmission operations

$667
$100
$767



section 13 (1)

Fail to meet fire suppression responsibilities

$267
$40
$307








Wildlife Act




section 7 (5)

Disobey regional managers order in wildlife management area

$200
$30
$230



section 9 (1)
Destroy muskrat/beaver house/dam
$300
$45
$345



section 11 (1) (a)
Hunt without licence
$200
$30
$230



section 11 (1) (b)
Hunt without LEH authorization
$300
$45
$345



section 11 (1) (c)

Hunt without species licence required by section 5 (1) of the
Hunting Licensing Regulation

$200
$30
$230



section 11 (1) (c)

Hunt without species licence required by section 5 (2) of the
Hunting Licensing Regulation

$200
$30
$230



section 11 (1) (c)

Hunt without upland game bird licence required by section 5 (3) of
the Hunting Licensing Regulation

$200
$30
$230



section 11 (1) (c)

Hunt without Fraser Valley special area licence required by
section 25 of the Hunting Licensing Regulation

$200
$30
$230



section 11 (1) (c)

Hunt without Gulf Islands special area licence required by section
30 of the Hunting Licensing Regulation

$200
$30
$230



section 11 (5)

Person under 18 hunts without supervision

$200
$30
$230



section 11 (8)
Trap without licence
$200
$30
$230



section 14
Obtain more licences than allowed
$200
$30
$230



section 17.1 (3)

Unlawfully accompany person under 18

$200
$30
$230



section 17.1 (4)

Allow person under 18 to hunt/carry firearm without supervision

$200
$30
$230



section 17.2 (2)

Initiation hunter hunts without supervision

$200
$30
$230



section 17.2 (3)

Unlawfully accompany initiation hunter

$200
$30
$230



section 21 (1) (a)
Unlawful import of live wildlife
$500
$75
$575



section 21 (1) (b)
Unlawful export of wildlife
$300
$45
$345



section 26 (1) (c)

Kill wildlife not within open season

$300
$45
$345



section 26 (1) (d)
Hunt during prohibited hours
$200
$30
$230



section 27 (1)

Discharge firearm/hunt wildlife from motor vehicle/boat

$500
$75
$575



section 27 (3)

Harass wildlife with vehicle or device

$300
$45
$345



section 27 (4)

Hunt wildlife within 6 hours of being airborne

$300
$45
$345



section 29
Attempt to capture wildlife
$300
$45
$345



section 30
Hunt big game which is swimming
$300
$45
$345



section 31
Discharge firearm across highway
$300
$45
$345



section 32

Discharge firearm in no shooting area

$300
$45
$345



section 33 (1)

Unlawful possession of live wildlife

$300
$45
$345



section 33 (2)

Unlawful possession of dead wildlife or parts

$200
$30
$230



section 33.1 (1) (a)

Intentionally feed dangerous wildlife

$300
$45
$345



section 33.1 (1) (b)

Intentionally provide, leave or place an attractant to attract
dangerous wildlife

$300
$45
$345



section 33.1 (2)

Attract dangerous wildlife to land or premises

$200
$30
$230



section 34 (a)

Possess/injure/take/molest a bird or egg

$300
$45
$345



section 34 (b)
Molest/take/destroy bird nest
$500
$75
$575



section 34 (c)

Molest/take/destroy bird nest while occupied

$500
$75
$575



section 35 (2) (a)
Fail to retrieve wildlife
$200
$30
$230



section 38

Fail to provide information to officer

$300
$45
$345



section 39 (1)

Hunt/trap on cultivated land without permission

$200
$30
$230



section 44

Leave trap set after season closed

$200
$30
$230



section 46
Interfere with lawfully set trap
$300
$45
$345



section 47

Non-resident hunting without guide

$500
$75
$575



section 48 (1) (a)

Guide for game without guide licence

$500
$75
$575




section 48 (2) for the contravention of section 48 (1.1)


Fail to comply with requirements respecting person employed as
assistant guide

$500
$75
$575




section 48 (2) for the contravention of section 48 (1.2)


Fail to issue authorization to assistant guide as required

$200
$30
$230




section 48 (2) for the contravention of section 48 (1.3)


Fail to comply with records requirements respecting person
employed as assistant guide

$200
$30
$230




section 48 (2.2) for the contravention of section 48 (2.1) (a),
(b), (d), (e), (g) or (h)


Fail to comply with requirements to guide for game as assistant
guide

$200
$30
$230




section 48 (2.2) for the contravention of section 48 (2.1) (c)


Guiding for game as assistant guide without written authorization

$500
$75
$575




section 48 (2.2) for the contravention of section 48 (2.1) (f)


Guiding for game as assistant guide while prohibited

$500
$75
$575



section 49 (1) (a)

Guide for fish without guide licence

$500
$75
$575



section 49 (1) (b)
Guide for fish without licence
$500
$75
$575



section 49 (2)

Guide — employ unlicensed assistant guide

$500
$75
$575



section 55 (2)

Fail to complete or give guide report

$200
$30
$230



section 56 (1)
Guide unlicensed hunter
$500
$75
$575



section 56 (2)
Guide unlicensed angler
$200
$30
$230



section 69
Fail to pay guide royalty
$500
$75
$575



section 70 (2)

Accompany non-resident hunter without permit

$300
$45
$345



section 71 (1)

Commercial operator fail to keep records

$200
$30
$230



section 71 (2)

Commercial operator fail to produce required records

$300
$45
$345



section 72 (1)

Trade fur without fur trader licence

$300
$45
$345



section 72 (3)

Fail to obtain licence for each business

$200
$30
$230



section 73 (1)
Fail to pay fur royalty
$200
$30
$230



section 77 (2)

Release/abandon animal without authority

$300
$45
$345



section 77 (3)
Fail to recover escaped animal
$300
$45
$345



section 78 (a)

Cause or allow dog to pursue wildlife

$300
$45
$345



section 78 (b)

Allow dog to unlawfully pursue game

$200
$30
$230



section 80

Obstruct lawful hunting fishing or trapping

$300
$45
$345



section 82 (1) (a)

Knowingly make a false statement in order to obtain a licence,
permit or limited entry hunting authorization

$500
$75
$575



section 82 (5)

Make a false statement in an application made on behalf of another
person

$500
$75
$575



section 83 (2)
Remove or destroy lawful sign
$300
$45
$345



section 85 (2)

Obtain licence while fine outstanding

$500
$75
$575



section 88.1 (7)

Fail to comply with dangerous wildlife protection order

$500
$75
$575



section 95 (2)

Fail to stop vehicle and provide information to officer

$300
$45
$345



section 97 (2) (a)

Fail to state name and address to officer

$300
$45
$345



section 97 (2) (b)

Fail to produce prescribed photo identification to officer

$300
$45
$345



section 97 (4) (a)

Fail to state name and address to officer

$300
$45
$345



section 97 (4) (b)

Fail to produce prescribed photo identification to officer

$300
$45
$345




Every provision of the
Wildlife Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence, other than








(a) the sections specifically enumerated in this Schedule, and








(b) sections 7 (1), 22, 24 (6), (7), and (14), 26 (1) (a), (b),
(e), (f), and (g), 27 (2), 28, 81, 82 (1) (b), (c) and (d), (3)
and (4) and 96 (1)

$100
$15
$115








Angling and Scientific Collection Regulation, B.C. Reg. 125/90







section 14 (1)

Sell or barter fish caught by angling

$500
$75
$575



section 15 (1)

Possess salmon or trout roe in excess of 1 kg

$200
$30
$230



section 16 (1)

Dress fish to prevent identification of species

$200
$30
$230



section 16 (1)

Dress fish to prevent number being determined

$200
$30
$230



section 16 (1)

Dress fish to prevent size being determined

$200
$30
$230



section 19 (a)

Angle in prescribed waters without licence

$200
$30
$230



section 19 (a.1)

Angle in prescribed waters during prohibited time

$200
$30
$230



section 19 (b)

Guided angler does not possess valid licence

$200
$30
$230



section 19 (c)
Guide on unspecified waters
$500
$75
$575



section 19 (d)

Assistant guide — guide on unspecified waters

$500
$75
$575








Guiding Territory Certificate Regulation







section 11 (a)

Fail to notify of change to control of corporation holding guiding
territory certificate

$500
$75
$575



section 11 (b)

Fail to comply with request of regional managers

$500
$75
$575








Hunter Safety Training Regulation, B.C. Reg. 53/98







section 4 (2)
Examiner fails to submit records
$250
$38
$288



section 8
Examiner fails to keep records
$150
$23
$173








Hunting Licensing Regulation, B.C. Reg. 8/99







section 8 (1)

Improperly issue hunting licence to person under 18

$200
$30
$230



section 20

Issue hunting/species licence to self

$200
$30
$230








Hunting Regulation, B.C. Reg. 190/84







section 10
Exceed bag or possession limit
$300
$45
$345



section 13.7 (a)

take or kill grizzly bear cub or accompanying grizzly bear

$300
$45
$345



section 13.7 (b)

take or kill black bear cub or accompanying black bear

$300
$45
$345



section 13.7 (c)

take or kill white or blue (glacier) coloured black bear

$300
$45
$345



section 13.7 (d)

take or kill cougar kitten or accompanying cougar

$300
$45
$345



section 13.7 (e)

take or kill female mountain goat with kid

$300
$45
$345



section 13.7 (f)

take or kill lynx in pair or group

$300
$45
$345



section 13.7 (g)

take or kill bobcat in pair or group

$300
$45
$345



section 16 (1)

Fail to comply with compulsory inspection requirements

$200
$30
$230



section 16 (3)

Fail to comply with compulsory inspection requirements

$200
$30
$230



section 16 (5)

Fail to report required information

$200
$30
$230



section 17 (1) (a)

Hunt with unlawful rifle ammunition

$300
$45
$345



section 17 (1) (c)

Hunt with unlawful shotgun ammunition

$300
$45
$345



section 17 (1) (m)
Hunt bear using bait
$300
$45
$345



section 17 (1) (n)

Hunt migratory birds with power boat

$200
$30
$230



section 17 (1) (p)
Hunt waterfowl with toxic shot
$200
$30
$230



section 17.1 (2) (a)

Operate drone while on hunting or trapping expedition

$300
$45
$345



section 17.1 (2) (b)

Have drone in possession, charge or control while on hunting or
trapping expedition

$300
$45
$345



section 17.1 (2) (c)

While on hunting or trapping expedition, use information obtained
by drone during, or less than 6 hours before start of, expedition

$300
$45
$345



section 18 (1) (b)
Discharge firearm from vehicle
$500
$75
$575



section 18 (1) (c)
Hunt migratory birds over bait
$200
$30
$230



section 18 (1) (d)

Continue to hunt after taking bag limit

$200
$30
$230



section 18 (1) (g)
Carry cocked crossbow in vehicle
$200
$30
$230



section 18 (1) (h)
Discharge bow from vehicle
$500
$75
$575








Motor Vehicle Prohibition Regulation, B.C. Reg. 196/99







section 2

Use or operate motor vehicle in closed area

$500
$75
$575



section 3

Use or operate motor vehicle in hunting closed areas

$200
$30
$230



section 4

Use or operate atv or snowmobile in closed area

$500
$75
$575



section 5

Atv or snowmobile hunting closed areas

$200
$30
$230



section 6
Snowmobile hunting closed areas
$200
$30
$230



section 7
Atv hunting closed areas
$200
$30
$230



section 7.1

Use or operate snowmobile in closed area

$500
$75
$575








Every provision of the Permit Regulation, B.C. Reg. 253/2000, the
contravention of which constitutes an offence

$200
$30
$230








Public Access Prohibition Regulation, B.C. Reg. 187/2003







section 6

Operate vehicle in prohibited area

$200
$30
$230



section 7

Operate vehicle in prohibited area

$200
$30
$230



section 8

Access Stum Lake during prohibited period

$200
$30
$230








Wildlife Act Commercial Activities Regulation, B.C. Reg. 338/82







section 1.02
Guide without insurance
$500
$75
$575



section 1.05 (1)
Improperly guide hunter
$200
$30
$230



section 1.05 (2)
Guide hunter outside guide area
$500
$75
$575



section 1.05 (3)

Assistant guide — guide hunter outside guide area

$500
$75
$575



section 1.05.1 (1)
Fail to deliver guide report
$200
$30
$230



section 1.11
Guide without paying annual fee
$500
$75
$575



section 2.01.1 (1)
Failure to submit report
$200
$30
$230



section 2.06 (3)
Fur trader fail to submit return
$200
$30
$230



section 2.08 (1)
Unlawfully possess bear parts
$500
$75
$575



section 2.09 (1)
Traffic in dead wildlife or parts
$500
$75
$575



section 3.04 (1)

Trap fur bearing animal with illegal trap/method

$200
$30
$230



section 3.04 (3) (a)

Trap with unlawful rifle ammunition

$300
$45
$345



section 3.04 (3) (b)

Trap with unlawful shotgun ammunition

$300
$45
$345



section 3.04 (3) (c)
Trap black bear by using bait
$300
$45
$345



section 3.05
Fail to examine traps as required
$200
$30
$230



section 3.10 (a)

Trap without completing trapping course

$200
$30
$230



section 3.16

Fail to comply with reporting requirements

$200
$30
$230



section 3.16.1
Fail to submit trapping report
$200
$30
$230



section 3.17

Trap on private property without permission

$200
$30
$230



section 3.20
Exceed trapping quota
$300
$45
$345








Wildlife Act General Regulation, B.C. Reg. 340/82







section 15.01 (2)

Allow person under 10 years to hunt

$200
$30
$230








Every provision of any regulation made under the
Wildlife Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence, other than





(a) the sections of regulations specifically enumerated in this
Schedule, and








(b) section 2.08 (3) of B.C. Reg. 338/82, the Wildlife Act
Commercial Activities Regulation

$100
$15
$115





Schedule 3


[en. B.C. Reg. 384/2003, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 113/2005, Sch. 2;
125/2005, App., s. 2; 169/2005; 104/2006; 37/2007; 111/2007; 2008-42-78;
123/2009; 149/2009; 175/2009, s. 2 (c); 309/2009, ss. (a) and (b);
310/2009; 194/2010, s. (c); 237/2010; 353/2010, s. 3; 98/2012; 129/2012;
116/2015, App. 2; 108/2016; 118/2016; 17/2017, App., s. 3; 224/2018;
208/2018, App. 1; 133/2019, App. 1, ss. 3 and 4; 202/2019, App. 2;
192/2020; 91/2021; 238/2021, Sch. 2; 308/2021, s. 3; 40/2023, ss. 3, as
am. 181/2023, and 4.]





1


2


3A


3B


4


5A


5B




Provision


Contravention



Fine



(>30

days)




Reduced

Fine


(<=30

days)




Victim

Surcharge

Levy




Ticketed

Amount


(>30

days)




Reduced

Ticketed

Amount

(<=30

days)












Motor Vehicle Act



section 13 (1) (a)
No vehicle licence
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 13 (1) (b)
No number plate
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 13 (1) (c)
Wrong number plate
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 24 (1)
No driver's licence
$240
$215
$36
$276
$261


section 24 (3) (b)
No insurance
$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 25 (15)

Drive contrary to driver's licence restriction

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84



The reference to section 25 (15) in Column 1 does not apply to an
offence for violating a specific driver's licence requirement,
restriction or condition that is set out in another item in
Schedule 3.



section 31 (1)
Fail to change address
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 33 (1)
Fail to produce driver's licence
$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 33 (1)
Fail to produce insurance
$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 68 (1)

Fail to remain at scene of accident

$320
$295
$48
$368
$343


section 68 (2)

Fail to stop after collision with unattended vehicle

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171


section 68 (3)

Fail to stop when in accident resulting in damage to property

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171


section 71
Fail to produce vehicle licence
$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 73 (1)
Fail to stop for police
$125
$100
$19
$144
$119


section 73 (2)
Fail to state name and address
$125
$100
$19
$144
$119



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 140


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Fail to obey construction signs if the speed limit is exceeded by
less than 21 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 140


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Fail to obey construction signs if the speed limit is exceeded by
21 km/hr to 40 km/hr

$220
$195
$33
$253
$228



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 146 (1)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Speed in municipality if the speed limit is exceeded by less than
21 km/hr

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 146 (1)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Speed in municipality if the speed limit is exceeded by 21 km/hr
to 40 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 146 (1)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Speed outside municipality if the speed limit is exceeded by less
than 21 km/hr

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 146 (1)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Speed outside municipality if the speed limit is exceeded by 21
km/hr to 40 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 146 (3)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Speed against highway sign if the speed limit is exceeded by less
than 21 km/hr

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 146 (3)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Speed against highway sign if the speed limit is exceeded by 21
km/hr to 40 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 146 (5)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Speed against area sign if the speed limit is exceeded by less
than 21 km/hr

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 146 (5)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Speed against area sign if the speed limit is exceeded by 21 km/hr
to 40 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 146 (7)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Speed against municipal sign if the speed limit is exceeded by
less than 21 km/hr

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 146 (7)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Speed against municipal sign if the speed limit is exceeded by 21
km/hr to 40 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 147 (1)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Speed in school zone if the speed limit is exceeded by less than
21 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 147 (1)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of: Speed in school zone if the speed limit is exceeded by
21 km/hr to 40 km/hr

$220
$195
$33
$253
$228



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 147 (2)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of: Speed in playground zone if the speed limit is
exceeded by less than 21 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 147 (2)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Speed in playground zone if the speed limit is exceeded by 21
km/hr to 40 km/hr

$220
$195
$33
$253
$228



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 148 (1)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Excessive speed if the speed limit is exceeded by 41 km/hr to 60
km/hr

$320
$295
$48
$368
$343



section 83.1 (2) for the contravention of section 148 (1)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Excessive speed if the speed limit is exceeded by more than 60
km/hr

$420
$395
$63
$483
$458



section 83.1 (2.1) for the contravention of section 129 (1)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of: Fail to obey red light at intersection

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142



section 83.1 (2.1) for the contravention of section 129 (5) (a)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Fail to obey red light — no intersection

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142



section 83.1 (2.1) for the contravention of section 131 (1) (a)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Fail to obey flashing red light at intersection

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142



section 83.1 (2.1) for the contravention of section 131 (2) (a)


Liable as the owner of the vehicle for the commission of the
offence of:

Fail to obey flashing red light — no intersection

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 85
Allow unlicensed minor to drive
$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 121

Unsafe driving of maintenance or construction vehicle

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 123
Fail to obey police direction
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 125

Fail to obey traffic control device

$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 127 (1) (a) (ii)
Fail to yield to pedestrian
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 127 (1) (a) (iii)
Fail to yield to vehicle
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 128 (1) (a)

Fail to stop for yellow light at intersection

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 129 (1)

Fail to stop for red light at intersection

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 129 (3)

Fail to yield on right turn at red light

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 129 (4) (b)

Fail to yield on left turn at red light

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 129 (5) (a)

Fail to stop at red light — no intersection

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 130 (1) (a)
Fail to yield on green arrow
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 130 (1) (a)
Fail to obey green arrow
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 130 (2) (a) (i)

Fail to stop on yellow arrow at marked crosswalk

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 130 (2) (a) (ii)

Fail to stop on yellow arrow at intersection

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 130 (2) (b)

Fail to yield on yellow arrow for pedestrian

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 131 (1) (a)

Fail to stop at red flashing light at intersection

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 131 (2) (a)

Fail to stop at red flashing light where no intersection

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 131 (3) (a)

Fail to yield at yellow flashing light at intersection

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 131 (4) (a)

Fail to yield at yellow flashing light where no intersection

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 131 (5) (a)

Fail to yield at green flashing light

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 134

Fail to obey lane direction control signal

$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 135.1

Obstruct or interfere with traffic light safety device

$220
$195
$33
$253
$228


section 140

Fail to obey construction signs if the speed limit is exceeded by
less than 21 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171


section 140

Fail to obey construction signs if the speed limit is exceeded by
21 km/hr to 40 km/hr

$220
$195
$33
$253
$228


section 141
Fail to obey flagman
$170
$145
$26
$196
$171


section 143
Drive over newly painted lines
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 144 (1) (a)
Drive without due care
$320
$295
$48
$368
$343


section 144 (1) (b)
Drive without consideration
$170
$145
$26
$196
$171


section 144 (1) (c)
Speed relative to conditions
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 145 (1)
Slow driving
$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 146 (1)

Speed in municipality if the speed limit is exceeded by less than
21 km/hr

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 146 (1)

Speed in municipality if the speed limit is exceeded by 21 km/hr
to 40 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171


section 146 (1)

Speed outside municipality if the speed limit is exceeded by less
than 21 km/hr

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 146 (1)

Speed outside municipality if the speed limit is exceeded by 21
km/hr to 40 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171


section 146 (3)

Speed against highway sign if the speed limit is exceeded by less
than 21 km/hr

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 146 (3)

Speed against highway sign if the speed limit is exceeded by 21
km/hr to 40 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171


section 146 (5)

Speed against area sign if the speed limit is exceeded by less
than 21 km/hr

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 146 (5)

Speed against area sign if the speed limit is exceeded by 21 km/hr
to 40 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171


section 146 (7)

Speed against municipal sign if the speed limit is exceeded by
less than 21 km/hr

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 146 (7)

Speed against municipal sign if the speed limit is exceeded by 21
km/hr to 40 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171


section 146 (11)
Speed on municipal lane
$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 147 (1)

Speed in school zone if the speed limit is exceeded by less than
21 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171


section 147 (1)

Speed in school zone if the speed limit is exceeded by 21 km/hr to
40 km/hr

$220
$195
$33
$253
$228


section 147 (2)

Speed in playground zone if the speed limit is exceeded by less
than 21 km/hr

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171


section 147 (2)

Speed in playground zone if the speed limit is exceeded by 21
km/hr to 40 km/hr

$220
$195
$33
$253
$228


section 148 (1)

Excessive speed if the speed limit is exceeded by 41 km/hr to 60
km/hr

$320
$295
$48
$368
$343


section 148 (1)

Excessive speed if the speed limit is exceeded by more than 60
km/hr

$420
$395
$63
$483
$458


section 149
Fail to stop for school bus
$320
$295
$48
$368
$343


section 150 (1)
Fail to keep right
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 150 (2)

Fail to keep slow vehicle on right

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 150 (3)

Fail to keep right of rotary traffic island

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 151 (a)
Change lanes unsafely
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 151 (b)
Change lanes over solid line
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 151 (c)
Change lanes without signal
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 151 (d)
Left turn from wrong lane
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 151 (e)
Right turn from wrong lane
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 151 (f)
Illegal pass on laned roadway
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 151 (g)
Slow moving in wrong lane
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 151.1 (3)
Improper use of leftmost lane
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 154

Pass when meeting oncoming vehicle

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 155 (1) (a)
Cross solid double line
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 155 (1) (b) (i)

Fail to keep right of double broken/solid line

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 155 (1) (b) (ii)
Cross solid broken line
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 155 (1) (c)

Fail to keep right of single broken/solid line

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 157 (1) (a)
Fail to pass at safe distance
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 157 (1) (b)
Fail to complete pass safely
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 157 (2) (a)
Fail to yield to passing vehicle
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 157 (2) (b)
Increase speed while being passed
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 158 (1)
Pass on right
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 158 (2) (a)
Pass on right unsafely
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 158 (2) (b)
Pass on right off roadway
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 159
Pass on left unsafely
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 160
Pass without clear view
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 161

Fail to obey traffic sign or signal

$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 162 (1)
Follow too closely
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 162 (2)

Commercial vehicle following too closely

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 162 (3)

Fail to leave sufficient space between vehicles

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 163 (a)
Drive over highway divider
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 163 (b)

Fail to keep right on divided highway

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 164 (1)
Enter controlled access highway
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 164 (2)
Leave controlled access highway
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 165 (5)
Improper turn at intersection
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 166

Improper left turn where no intersection

$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 167

Improper right turn where no intersection

$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 168 (a)
Unsafe U-turn
$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 168 (b) (iii)
Prohibited U-turn
$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 168 (b) (iv)
U-turn at intersection
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 168 (b) (v)
U-turn in business district
$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 169
Unsafe start
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 170 (1)
Fail to signal on turn
$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 170 (2)
Inadequate signal on turn
$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 170 (3)

Fail to signal stop or decrease in speed

$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 171 (2)

Drive vehicle without signal device

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 172 (2)
No proper signalling equipment
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 173 (1)

Fail to yield at uncontrolled intersection

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 173 (2)
Fail to obey yield sign
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 174
Fail to yield on left turn
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 174

Fail to yield to left turn vehicle

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 175 (1)
Fail to yield after stop
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 175 (2)

Fail to yield to vehicle leaving stop

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 176 (1)
Emerging vehicle fail to stop
$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 176 (2)
Emerging vehicle fail to yield
$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 177

Fail to yield for emergency vehicle

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 179 (1)
Fail to yield to pedestrian
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 179 (3)

Pass vehicle yielding for pedestrian

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 179 (4)
Fail to obey school guard
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 179 (4)
Fail to obey school patrol
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 181

Fail to exercise duty to pedestrian

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 183 (2) (a)
Ride cycle on sidewalk
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 183 (2) (c)
Fail to ride cycle on right
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 183 (6)

Ride cycle after dark without lights

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 183 (14)
Careless cycling
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 183 (14)

Cycle without reasonable consideration

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 184 (1)

Cycle without required bicycle helmet

$25
$25
$4
$29
$29


section 184 (2)

Permit cycling without required bicycle helmet

$25
$25
$4
$29
$29


section 185 (1)
Fail to stop at railway crossing
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 185 (1)
Leave railway crossing unsafely
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 185 (2)
Drive past railway crossing gate
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 185 (3) (a)
Fail to obey railway stop sign
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 185 (3) (b)
Leave railway stop sign unsafely
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 185 (4) (e)

Fail to stop commercial vehicle at railway

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 185 (5)

Fail to proceed with caution at railway crossing

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 186
Fail to obey stop sign
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 187 (1)
Fail to park off roadway
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 187 (2)
Obstruct traffic by parking
$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 189 (1) (a)
Park on sidewalk
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 189 (1) (a)
Park on boulevard
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 189 (1) (b)
Block driveway
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 189 (1) (c)
Park in intersection
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 189 (1) (d)
Park near hydrant
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 189 (1) (e)
Park on crosswalk
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 189 (1) (f)
Park near crosswalk
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 189 (1) (g)
Park near traffic control device
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 189 (1) (h)
Park by exit
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 189 (1) (i)
Park near railway crossing
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 189 (1) (l)
Double parking
$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 189 (1) (m)
Park on bridge
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 189 (1) (m)
Park in tunnel
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 189 (1) (n)
Park in No Parking zone
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 189 (1) (n)
Park in Restricted Parking zone
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 190
Park on left side
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 190
Park too far from curb
$35
$35
$5
$40
$40


section 191 (2) (a)
Unsecured motor vehicle
$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 193
Reverse into intersection
$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 193
Reverse when unsafe
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 194 (1)

Operate motorcycle while not on seat

$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 194 (2) (a)

Passenger unlawfully on motorcycle

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 194 (2) (b)

Motorcycle passenger not lawfully seated

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 194 (2) (c)

Fail to use foot pegs or floorboards

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 194 (3)

Ride motorcycle without required helmet

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 194 (4) (a)

Permit passenger under 16 to be unlawfully seated

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 194 (4) (b)

Permit passenger under 16 to ride without required helmet

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 194 (9)
Obstruct a peace officer
$240
$215
$36
$276
$251


section 194 (10)

Operate motorcycle more than 2 abreast

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 195 (1) (a)
Drive while control obstructed
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 195 (1) (b)
Drive while view obstructed
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 195 (2)
Obstruct driver
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 197
Coast down grade illegally
$105
$80
$16
$121
$96


section 198
Follow fire truck too closely
$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 198
Park near fire truck
$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 199
Drive over fire hose
$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 200
Drive on sidewalk
$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 203 (1)
Open door while unsafe
$320
$295
$48
$368
$343


section 204 (1)

Deposit injurious article on highway

$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 204 (2)
Deposit litter on highway
$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 207 (2)

Fail to carry required warning devices

$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 207 (3)
Fail to use warning devices
$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 208 (4)

Driver operates a commercial motor vehicle without equipping the
vehicle with chains or a traction device

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 214.2 (1)

Use an electronic device while driving

$320
$295
$48
$368
$343


section 214.2 (2)
Email or text while driving
$320
$295
$48
$368
$343


section 220 (2)

Operate vehicle without seat belts

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 220 (3)

Operate vehicle with inoperative seat belt

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 220 (4)
Fail to wear seat belt
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 220 (6)

Permit passenger without seat belt

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 231.1 (2)

Smoke or hold lighted tobacco in motor vehicle when person under
age 16 is present

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 231.1 (2)

Use e-cigarette or hold activated e-cigarette in motor vehicle
when person under age 16 is present

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84



Every provision of the
Motor Vehicle Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence, other than




(a) the sections specifically enumerated in this Schedule, and









(b) sections 24 (6) (a), (b) and (c), 58 (1) and (2), 69 (1) to
(3), 70 (1) (a) and (1.1), 74, 95 (1), 100 (1), 102, 122 (4), 224
and 226 (1) of that Act

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84








Electric Kick Scooter Pilot Project Regulation








section 18 (1) (b)

Operate electric kick scooter without required helmet

$25
$25
$4
$29
$29








Motor Vehicle Act Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58








section 3.02
Improper display of plate
$200
$175
$30
$230
$205


section 3.03
Illegible plate
$200
$175
$30
$230
$205


section 4.01
Drive without lighted lamp
$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 4.02 (1)
Unauthorized lamp
$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 4.06 (5)
Fail to dim headlamps
$70
$45
$11
$81
$56



Every provision of Division (6) of the Motor Vehicle Act
Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58, the contravention of which
constitutes an offence, except section 6.02 (2) (b) of that
regulation

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 6.02 (2) (b)

Improper brake performance:

for each service brake not in effective working order

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113




plus an additional penalty if 50% or more of the vehicle's service
brakes are not in effective working order

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 7.05 (1)

Windshield or window that impairs driver vision

$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 7.1635

Driver operates a commercial motor vehicle without carrying chains
or a traction device

$170
$145
$26
$196
$171


section 7A.01
Unnecessary noise
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 10.04 (1)
Improper carriage of passengers
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 10.04 (3)

Carriage of more than 2 passengers in a freight vehicle

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 10.041 (2)

Carriage of unfit livestock or poultry

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 10.041 (3)

Improper carriage of livestock or poultry

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 10.041 (4) (a) (i)

Transportation of foodstuffs with livestock or poultry

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 10.041 (4) (a) (ii)

Transportation of foodstuffs with freight that could contaminate

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 10.041 (4) (b)
Fail to adequately clean vehicle
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 10.12 (3) (a)

Baggage interferes with access to emergency door or window

$70
$45
$11
$81
$56


section 10.22 (3)
Fail to meet equipment standards
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 10.22 (4)
Fail to secure equipment
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 24.02.01

No third party liability insurance coverage

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 25.04 (2)

Improper use of identification card

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 25.04 (3)

Improper use of identification plate

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 25.07 (1)
Fail to display valid certificate
$310
$285
$47
$357
$332


section 25.09 (1)
Unauthorized issue of certificate
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 25.09 (2)
Improper use of certificate
$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 25.10 (3)

Unauthorized person signing inspection report

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 25.10 (4)
Alteration of inspection report
$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 25.11

Fail to notify change of information

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 25.12 (1) (c)
Fail to deliver inspection report
$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 25.13 (1) (a)

Fail to complete inspection report

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 25.13 (2)
Improperly approve vehicle
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 25.13 (4)
Fail to carry inspection report
$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 25.27 (1)

Improperly issue inspection report

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 25.28 (a)

Fail to complete inspection report

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 25.29 (3)

Unauthorized person signing inspection report

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 25.29 (4)
Alteration of inspection report
$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 25.30 (4)
Fail to comply with order
$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 27.04 (1)
No Driver Training School licence
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 27.04 (2)

No Driver Training Instructor's licence

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 27.05 (1)
Inadequate bond
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 27.08 (4)

Instruction for unenrolled student

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 27.08 (5)
Instruction for unlicensed driver
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 27.10 (1)
Improper advertising display
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 27.10 (2) (a)

Misrepresentation as agent of government

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 27.10 (2) (b)
Soliciting in ICBC office
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 27.10 (2) (d)
Guarantee licence issuance
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 27.10 (2) (e)

Improper advertising — endorsement

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 27.10 (2) (f)
Improper advertising — name
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 27.10 (3) (a) (i)

Misrepresent successful completion of training course assessment

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 27.10 (3) (a) (ii)

Misrepresent successful completion of training course

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 27.10 (3) (a) (iii)

Misrepresent issuance of declaration of completion

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 27.10 (3) (b)

Alter or improperly issue record of assessment

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 27.10 (3) (c)

Alter or improperly issue declaration of completion

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 30.10 (2)

Fail to display "L" sign in violation of driver's licence
condition (section 25 (15)
Motor Vehicle Act
)

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 30.10 (4)

Fail to display "N" sign in violation of driver's licence
condition (section 25 (15)
Motor Vehicle Act
)

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84


section 35.03 (2)

Carrier permits operation without proper equipment or with
insecure cargo

$400
$375
$60
$460
$435


section 35.03 (3)

Driver operates commercial or business vehicle without proper
equipment or with insecure cargo

$250
$225
$38
$288
$263


section 35.03 (4)

Driver operates non-commercial or non-business vehicle without
proper equipment or with insecure cargo

$150
$125
$23
$173
$148


section 35.08 (2)
Failure to stop or secure cargo
$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 35.09

Insecure luggage in bus passenger compartment

$150
$125
$23
$173
$148


section 37.06 (a)

Drive if driving would be likely to jeopardize public safety

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.06 (b)

Drive if subject to an out-of-service declaration

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.06 (c)

Drive if driving would contravene regulation

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.07 (1)
No valid safety certificate
$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.07 (4)

Use of another person's safety certificate

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.07 (5)

Fail to produce safety certificate

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.08 (4)
Multiple safety certificates
$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.10 (2)

Fail to comply with conditions on safety certificate

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.11
Fail to notify of change of name
$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.11

Fail to notify of change of address

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.14 (2)

Fail to properly display name on commercial motor vehicle

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.15 (a)

Fail to provide notice of safety certificate number to owner

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.15 (b)

Fail to provide notice of safety certificate number

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.15 (c)

Fail to provide notice of safety certificate number change

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.17 (3)

Fail to record reason for extending driving

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.21 (2) (a)

Fail to require copy of exemption or permit in commercial motor
vehicle

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.21 (2) (b)

Fail to provide list of commercial motor vehicles with exemption
or permit to director

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.21 (2) (c)

Fail to produce record of duty status for commercial motor vehicle
with exemption or permit

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.21 (2) (c)

Fail to produce supporting records for commercial motor vehicle
with exemption or permit

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.21 (2) (d)

Fail to notify director of accident involving commercial motor
vehicle with exemption or permit

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.21 (3)

Fail to comply with conditions of exemption or permit

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.24 (1)

Fail to comply with daily driving time

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.24 (2)

Fail to comply with daily on-duty time

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.25 (1)

Fail to comply with 8 consecutive off-duty hours after 13 hours of
driving time

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.25 (2)

Fail to comply with 8 consecutive off-duty hours after 14 hours of
on-duty time

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.25 (3)

Drive after 16 hours have elapsed between off-duty periods

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.25 (4)

Fail to comply with off-duty time — at least 24 consecutive hours
in 14 days

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.26 (1)

Fail to comply with off-duty time — at least 10 hours in a day

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.26 (3)

Fail to comply with off-duty time — at least 2 aside from 8
consecutive hours

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.28 (3) (a)

Fail to comply with off-duty time — at least 10 hours in a day

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.28 (3) (b)

Fail to comply with 10 consecutive off-duty hours

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.28 (3) (c)

Fail to comply with off-duty time — at least 24 consecutive hours
in 14 days

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.28 (4) (a)

Fail to maintain accurate and legible records with required
information

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.28 (4) (b)
Fail to keep records for 6 months
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.30 (2) (b)

Fail to comply with off-duty time — after 13 of driving or 15
on-duty

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.30 (2) (c)

Drive after 15 hours have elapsed between off-duty periods

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.30 (2) (d)

Fail to comply with off-duty time — at least 24 consecutive hours
in 7 days

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.30 (3)

Excessive driving or on-duty hours

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.31 (1) (a)

Fail to comply with off-duty time — at least 3 periods off-duty
during 24 days

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.31 (1) (b)

Fail to comply with off-duty time — at least 72 consecutive hours
off-duty

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.31 (3)

Fail to comply with off-duty time — include waiting time

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.32 (3)

Fail to comply with off-duty time — if not splitting daily
off-duty time (single driver)

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.33 (3)

Fail to comply with off-duty time — if not splitting daily
off-duty time (team of drivers)

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.34
Fail to follow cycle 1 or cycle 2
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.35
Excessive hours — cycle 1
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.36 (a)
Excessive hours — cycle 2
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.36 (b)

Fail to comply with off-duty time — 24 consecutive hours after 70
hours on-duty

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.38 (1) (a)

Switch from cycle 1 to cycle 2 without required off-duty time

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.38 (1) (b)

Switch from cycle 2 to cycle 1 without required off-duty time

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.39 (1) (a)

Fail to equip commercial motor vehicle with compliant ELD

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.39 (1) (b)

Fail to mount ELD in fixed position, visible to driver

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.39 (2)

Carrier allow driver use of more than one ELD for same time period

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.39 (3)

Driver use of more than one ELD for same time period

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.40 (1)

Carrier fail to require driver to record required information in
ELD

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.40 (2)

Driver fail to record required information in ELD

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.40 (3)

Carrier fail to require driver to record complete and accurate
information in ELD

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.40 (4)

Driver fail to record complete and accurate information in ELD

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.40 (5)

Fail to enter or verify required information in ELD

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.40 (6)

Fail to configure ELD for yard moves

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.41

Fail to equip commercial motor vehicle with information packet

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.43

Fail to ensure ELD is in good working order and calibrated

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.44 (1)

Fail to notify carrier of ELD malfunction

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.44 (2)

Fail to record information related to ELD malfunction

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.44 (3)

Fail to record code of ELD malfunction

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.44 (4)
Fail to repair or replace ELD
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.44 (5)

Fail to maintain register of ELD malfunction

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.44 (6)

Fail to keep malfunction information for 6 months

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.45 (a)

Fail to maintain system of accounts for ELDs with distinct driver
accounts

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.45 (b)

Fail to maintain system of accounts for ELDs with unidentified
driver

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.46

Fail to certify record of duty status

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.47 (2)

Fail to fill out record of duty status

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.48 (1)

Fail to fill out record of duty status at beginning of day

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.48 (2)

Fail to record hours for each duty status during day

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.48 (4)

Fail to enter names and addresses of carriers in record of duty
status

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.48 (6)

Fail to enter required information in record of duty status at end
of day

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.48 (7)

Fail to certify accuracy of record of duty status

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.50 (2) (a)

Fail to possess record of duty status for current day

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.50 (2) (b)

Fail to possess record of duty status for previous days

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.50 (2) (c)

Fail to possess supporting records

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.51 (1)

Fail to provide record of duty status

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.51 (1)

Fail to provide supporting records

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.51 (2)

Fail to provide record of duty status to all carriers

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.51 (2)

Fail to provide supporting records to carrier

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.51 (3) (a)

Fail to deposit record of duty status

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.51 (3) (a)

Fail to deposit supporting records

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.51 (3) (b)

Fail to keep record of duty status for 6 months

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.51 (3) (b)

Fail to keep supporting records for 6 months

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.52 (1)

Fail to verify accuracy of certified record of duty status

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.52 (2)

Fail to complete record of duty status if change required

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.53 (1)
Fail to monitor compliance
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.53 (2)

Fail to take immediate remedial action for non-compliance

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.53 (3)
Fail to make record
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.54 (1)

Maintain more than one record of duty status

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.54 (2)

Fail to maintain accurate record of duty status

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.54 (5)
Tamper with an ELD
$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.56 (2) (a)

Fail to produce record of duty status for current day

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.56 (2) (b)

Fail to produce records of duty status for previous 14 days

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.56 (2) (c)

Fail to produce supporting records for current trip

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.56 (2) (d)

Fail to produce exemption or permit

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.56 (3) (a)

Fail to produce electronic records or transmit in required format

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.57 (1) (a)

Fail to make records of duty status or supporting records
available

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.57 (1) (b)

Fail to make unidentified driver records available

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.59

Obstruct or hinder director or peace officer

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.60 (1)

Fail to comply with trip inspection requirements

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.60 (2)

Fail to ensure vehicle in safe operating condition

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.60 (6) (a)

Fail to complete post-trip inspection report

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.60 (6) (b)

Fail to complete post-trip inspection report at final stops

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.61 (2)

Fail to require completed trip inspection report

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.61 (2)

Fail to prepare trip inspection report

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.61 (3)

Driver — no trip inspection report

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.61 (5)

Fail to possess current trip inspection report

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.61 (6)
Fail to produce inspection report
$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.63

Fail to deliver inspection report to carrier

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.64 (a)
Fail to repair or correct defects
$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.64 (b)

Fail to certify correction unnecessary

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.65 (1)

Fail to place trip inspection report at approved location

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.65 (2)

Fail to retain trip inspection report for 3 months

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.65 (2)

Fail to provide trip inspection report for inspection

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.67 (1) (a)
Fail to maintain driving record
$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.67 (1) (b) (i)

Fail to maintain trip inspection reports

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.67 (1) (b) (i)

Fail to maintain hours of service records

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.67 (1) (b) (ii)

Fail to maintain records of violations

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.67 (1) (b) (ii)

Fail to maintain records of convictions

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.67 (1) (c) (i)

Fail to maintain records of inspection

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.67 (1) (c) (ii)

Fail to maintain records of defects and corrections

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.67 (1) (c) (iii)

Fail to maintain records of accidents

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.67 (2)
Driver fails to deliver records
$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.68

Fail to maintain records for specified time

$120
$95
$18
$138
$113


section 37.70 (2)

Obstruct inspector in compliance review

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.70 (2)
Obstruct inspector in audit
$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.73

Operate unsafe commercial motor vehicle

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.74 (1)
Alter record
$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.74 (1)
Deface record
$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.74 (1)
Destroy record
$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.74 (2) (a)
Make false statement
$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.74 (2) (a)
Make deceptive statement
$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.74 (2) (b)
Omit entry in record
$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.75 (a)

Operating commercial motor vehicle while safety certificate
suspended

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.75 (b)

Operating commercial motor vehicle while safety certificate
cancelled

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 37.80 (1)

Fail to carry bill of lading or exemption

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.80 (2)

Fail to produce bill of lading or exemption

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.80 (3)

Fail to deliver bill of lading or exemption

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.86 (1) (a)

Fail to secure and maintain cargo insurance

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 37.86 (1) (b)

Fail to produce proof of cargo insurance

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 39.01 (a)
Fail to remain seated
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 39.01 (b)
Fail to be only occupant of seat
$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 39.02 (a)

Operate vehicle while person riding on vehicle

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 39.02 (b)

Operate vehicle while more than one person in seat

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 39.02 (c)

Operate vehicle while person not seated

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 39.02 (d)

Operate vehicle with too many seats

$145
$120
$22
$167
$142


section 39.02 (e)

Operate vehicle with too many persons in vehicle

$270
$245
$41
$311
$286


section 39.021 (a)

Require or allow vehicle to be operated with too many persons in
vehicle

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 39.021 (b)

Require or allow vehicle to be operated with inoperative seat
belts

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 39.021 (c)

Require or allow vehicle to be operated with too many seats

$520
$495
$78
$598
$573


section 47.02

Fail to slow down or move over near stopped official vehicle

$150
$125
$23
$173
$148








Regulations under the
Motor Vehicle Act

Every provision of the regulations made under the
Motor Vehicle Act
, the contravention of which constitutes an offence, other than
the following:

(a) the sections or Divisions specifically enumerated in this
Schedule;

(b) the provisions in Division 30 of the Motor Vehicle Act
Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58;

(c) sections 27.10 (4) and 37.54 (3) and (4) of the Motor Vehicle
Act Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58.

$95
$70
$14
$109
$84










Schedule 4


[en. B.C. Reg. 593/2004, s. 5; am. B.C. Regs. 594/2004, s. 4; 126/2005,
s. 4; 105/2011, s. 2.]





1


2


3


4


5




Ticketed Provision


Contravention


Fine



Victim

Surcharge

Levy



Amount











Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act




section 21
Operate without approved logging plan
$150
$23
$173



section 47 (1)
Exceed specified amount of soil disturbance
$300
$45
$345



section 51 (2)
Fail to modify or stop forest practice
$150
$23
$173



section 52 (2)
Fail to limit weeds
$100
$15
$115



section 54 (1)
Unauthorized use of road on Crown land
$150
$23
$173



section 54 (2)
Unauthorized use of forest service road
$150
$23
$173



section 60 (1)
Construct road without approved road layout
$300
$45
$345



section 64 (1)
Fail to deactivate road as required
$300
$45
$345



section 64 (2)

Fail to deactivate road according to prescribed requirements

$300
$45
$345



section 64 (3)
Fail to maintain stability of deactivated area
$300
$45
$345



section 64 (5)
Deactivate road without approved prescription
$300
$45
$345



section 64 (12)
Fail to deactivate road as required
$300
$45
$345



section 65
Connect to forest service road without consent
$100
$15
$115



section 67
Harvest contrary to requirements
$150
$23
$173



section 68
Build bladed trail without authority
$150
$23
$173



section 74 (1) (a)
Conduct range practice contrary to the Act
$150
$23
$173



section 74 (1) (b)
Conduct range practice contrary to plan
$150
$23
$173



section 74 (2) (c)
Fail to remove range development
$150
$23
$173



section 96

Cut, remove, damage or destroy Crown timber without authority

$150
$23
$173



section 97 (1)
Fail to inform person of boundaries
$150
$23
$173



section 97 (2)
Fail to ascertain boundaries
$150
$23
$173



section 98
Unauthorized livestock on Crown range
$150
$23
$173



section 99 (1)

Unauthorized construction or occupation of a structure

$100
$15
$115



section 100
Cut hay without authority
$150
$23
$173



section 101 (1) (a)
Store hay without authority
$100
$15
$115



section 101 (1) (b)

Unauthorized construction, modification, damage or destruction of
range development

$150
$23
$173



section 102 (1)

Unauthorized trail or recreation facility construction

$100
$15
$115



section 105 (4) (a)
Disobey non-recreation order
$100
$15
$115



section 105 (4) (a)
Disobey recreation order
$100
$15
$115



section 112 (2)
Fail to stop vehicle or vessel
$150
$23
$173



section 112 (3)
Fail to provide documents
$100
$15
$115



section 154

Intentional interference, noncompliance or false statement

$300
$45
$345








Forest Service Road Use Regulation, B.C. Reg. 173/95




section 3 (3)
Snowmobile illegally on forest service road
$50
$8
$58



section 4
Speed on forest service road
$75
$11
$86



section 5 (1)
Fail to properly transmit location
$75
$11
$86



section 6 (3)
Erect traffic control device without authority
$75
$11
$86



section 6 (4)
Damage or remove traffic control device
$75
$11
$86



section 6 (5)
Disobey traffic control device
$75
$11
$86



section 7
Vehicle not maintained to standards
$100
$15
$115



section 8

Unlicensed industrial vehicle not properly marked

$75
$11
$86



section 10 (1)
Damage forest service road
$150
$23
$173



section 11 (1)
Construct works without permit
$150
$23
$173



section 12 (1)

Use forest service road without required insurance

$300
$45
$345








Range Practices Regulation, B.C. Reg. 177/95




section 5 (1)
Fail to maintain range development
$100
$15
$115



section 6 (1)
Tracks or wheels within 5 m of stream bank
$100
$15
$115



section 6 (3)
Fuel machinery in riparian area
$150
$23
$173



section 7 (1)
Fail to remove livestock
$150
$23
$173



section 7 (3)
Livestock in riparian area
$150
$23
$173



section 7 (4)
Fail to remove dead livestock
$150
$23
$173



section 8 (2)
Fail to tag livestock
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (3)
Fail to report loss of tags
$100
$15
$115



section 8 (4)
Fail to transfer tags
$100
$15
$115








Silviculture Practices Regulation, B.C. Reg. 179/95




section 8

Pesticide within 100 m of domestic water intake

$150
$23
$173



section 10

Fail to maintain 10 m pesticide free zone around streams

$150
$23
$173



section 11

Fail to halt application in community watershed

$150
$23
$173



section 15

Fertilizer within 100 m of domestic water intake

$150
$23
$173



section 28 (1)
Tracks or wheels within 5 m of stream bank
$100
$15
$115



section 28 (3)
Fuel machinery in riparian area
$150
$23
$173








Timber Harvesting and Silviculture Practices Regulation, B.C. Reg.
352/2002




section 11 (1)
Tracks or wheels within 5 m of stream bank
$100
$15
$115



section 11 (3)
Fuel machinery in riparian area
$150
$23
$173



section 43 (2)

Fertilizer within 100 m of domestic water intake

$150
$23
$173




[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Offence Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 338, s. 132.]



