







B.C. Reg. 10/2011

O.C. 7/2011


Deposited February 1, 2011

effective February 1, 2011





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Armoured Vehicle and After-Market Compartment Control Act



Armoured Vehicle and After-Market Compartment Control Regulation







Definitions and interpretation




1

(1)


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Armoured Vehicle and After-Market Compartment Control Act

.




(2)

For certainty, a storage compartment or safe that is designed for
after-market installation in a vehicle and sold to the general public
by retail vendors of automotive or security equipment is not
"incorporated into the equipment or structure of the vehicle", as
described in paragraph (b) of the definition of "after-market
compartment" in section 1 of the Act, if it is attached to the vehicle




(a)

as it was designed to be attached by its manufacturer, and




(b)

in accordance with instructions provided by the manufacturer, if any.






Exemptions from section 2 (2) of Act




2

(1)


In this section,
"repairer's licence"
means a licence issued under section 44 (2) of the

Motor Vehicle Act

.




(2)

For the purposes of section 2 (3) (d) of the Act, section 2 (2) of the
Act does not apply to a person for the period during which




(a)

the person is in the course of their employment with the government, a
government corporation, as defined in the

Financial Administration Act

, the government of Canada or a local authority and is authorized to
operate an armoured vehicle in the course of their employment,




(b)

the person operates an armoured vehicle bearing a special red and
white number plate issued by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia for a motor vehicle owned or leased by an entity or person
listed in item 2 (e) (i) of the Schedule to the Motor Vehicle Fees
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 334/91,




(c)

the person operates an armoured vehicle in the course of their
employment as a licensed salesperson, or registered motor dealer,
under the

Motor Dealer Act

,




(d)

the person operates an armoured vehicle in the course of their
employment as or with holder of a repairer's licence,




(e)

the person operates an armoured vehicle that is an antique motor
vehicle, as defined in section 22.01 of the Motor Vehicle Act
Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58, and bears a distinctive number plate
issued under section 22.03 of that regulation,




(f)

the person operates, with the permission of the owner, an armoured
vehicle in respect of which that owner is registered, or is exempt
from registration, under Part 2 of the

Defence Production Act

(Canada), or




(g)

the person operates, with the permission of the owner, an armoured
vehicle in respect of which Part 2 of the

Defence Production Act

(Canada) does not, under section 36 of that Act, apply to that owner.






Conditions of exemption under section 2




3


On request of a peace officer, a person operating an armoured vehicle
who is exempt from the requirement to hold an armoured vehicle permit
must provide the following to the peace officer:




(a)

the full name, residential address and telephone number of the exempt
person;




(b)

if exempt under section 2 (3) (a) of the Act, the name and address of
the peace officer's employer and the peace officer's badge;




(c)

if exempt under section 2 (3) (b) or (c) of the Act, the exempt
person's security worker licence and the name and address of the
person's employer;




(d)

if exempt under section 2 (2) (a) of this regulation, the name and
address of the employer and the signed statement of the employer, or a
person on behalf of the employer, that the exempt person is authorized
to operate an armoured vehicle in the course of their employment, or a
copy of that signed statement;




(e)

if exempt under section 2 (2) (c) of this regulation, the
salesperson's licence or a copy of the motor dealer's certificate, as
applicable, and the name and address of the salesperson's employer;




(f)

if exempt under section 2 (2) (d) of this regulation, the name and
address of the employer or principal and the employer's or principal's
repairer's licence number;




(g)

if exempt under section 2 (2) (f) of this regulation, the certificate
of registration or exemption, as applicable, issued under the

Defence Production Act

(Canada), or a copy of that certificate, or if no certificate of
exemption is provided in respect of the exemption, the evidence
required under section 16 (2) of the Controlled Goods Regulation,
SOR/200-32;




(h)

if exempt under section 2 (2) (g) of this regulation, evidence that
the person belongs to a class of persons set out in section 36 (a) of
the

Defence Production Act

(Canada) or listed in section 1.1 of the Controlled Goods Regulation,
SOR/2001-32.






Applying for an armoured vehicle permit




4


An applicant for an armoured vehicle permit must provide the registrar
with all the following:




(a)

particulars respecting the applicant's identity and location,
including name, date and place of birth, gender, citizenship or
residence status, address, telephone number and email address, if any;




(b)

particulars respecting the applicant's physical appearance, including
hair colour, eye colour, weight and height;




(c)

a recent photograph of the applicant;




(d)

particulars respecting any unresolved charge, or conviction entered,
against the applicant for a crime;




(e)

whether the applicant holds or has previously held an armoured vehicle
permit;




(f)

particulars of the purpose for which the person is required to operate
an armoured vehicle, and, if the reasons relate to the applicant's
employment, the name of the employer, the employer's address and the
applicant's position with the employer.






Prescribed purposes




5


For the purposes of section 4 (1) (d) of the Act, the following
purposes for operating or continuing to operate an armoured vehicle
are prescribed:




(a)

the operator's personal protection;




(b)

protection of another person to whom the operator has a contractual
duty to transport;




(c)

protection of the operator's personal property;




(d)

protection of the property of another person, which property the
operator has a contractual duty to transport.






Prescribed checks




6


For the purposes of section 3 (2) (b) of the Act, the registrar must
carry out the following checks in respect of an applicant for a new
armoured vehicle permit or the renewal of an armoured vehicle permit:




(a)

a criminal record check;




(b)

a police information check;




(c)

a correctional service information check.






Maximum term




7


For the purposes of section 5 (1) of the Act, the registrar may issue
or renew an armoured vehicle permit for a term not exceeding 5 years.






Fees




8


For the purposes of section 3 (2) (c) of the Act, the fee




(a)

for an armoured vehicle permit for a term of up to 5 years is $90, and




(b)

for the renewal of an armoured vehicle permit for a term of up to 5
years is $45.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Armoured Vehicle and After-Market Compartment Control Act

, S.B.C. 2010, c. 8, section 20]



