







B.C. Reg. 65/90

O.C. 285/90


Deposited February 23, 1990






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Local Government Act and Community Charter


Capital Regional District Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 117/2018, June 15, 2018]






Traffic safety commission




1


The Capital Regional District is granted the additional power to
establish and operate a traffic safety commission as an extended
service.






Local services




2

(1)


The Capital Regional District may, by bylaw, establish and operate
services, as local services, that were covered by the objects, powers,
obligations, duties, limitations and conditions of the Capital
Regional District as set out in Division XXXVII of the Letters Patent
of the Capital Regional District on July 30, 1989.




(2)

The Capital Regional District may, by bylaw, establish and provide for
the operation of services, as local services, that were covered by




(a)

the Galiano Island Activity Room Specified Area Establishment and Loan
Authorization By-law, 1982, or




(b)

the Langford Enhancement Society Specified Area Establishment By-law
No. 1, 1988

on July 30, 1989.
[en. B.C. Reg. 105/90.]





Extended services




3


The Capital Regional District may, by bylaw, establish and operate
services, as extended services, that were covered by the objects,
powers, obligations, duties, limitations and conditions of the Capital
Regional District as set out in




(a)

Division VI,




(b)

Division XI — Community Health,




(c)

Division XXV,




(d)

Division XXVI,




(e)

Division XXIX,




(f)

Division XXXI,




(g)

Division XXXVI, or




(h)

Division XXXVIII


of Letters Patent of the Capital Regional District on July 30, 1989.

[en. B.C. Reg. 105/90.]





Commonwealth Games Grant-in-Aid




4


The Capital Regional District is granted the additional power to
provide Commonwealth Games Grant-in-Aid as a local service.

[en. B.C. Reg. 420/90.]





Emergency Programs




5


The Capital Regional District is granted the additional power to
provide Emergency Programs as an extended service under the

Emergency Program Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/93.]





Small craft harbour facilities




6


The Capital Regional District is granted the additional power to
establish, acquire and operate a service of small craft harbour
facilities under section 550 of the

Municipal Act

, as a local service.

[en. B.C. Reg. 16/97.]





Towing in parks and on trails




7


The Capital Regional District is granted the additional power to allow
for the towing of illegally parked vehicles within community parks,
regional parks and regional trails under section 124 (1) (c), (f), (g)
and (u) of the

Motor Vehicle Act

as an extended service.

[en. B.C. Reg. 213/97.]





Review and recommendation




8


The Capital Regional District is granted the additional power to
review and make recommendations to appropriate agencies concerning the
operation of emergency radio and electronic communications services
for the Capital Regional District.

[en. B.C. Reg. 103/99.]





Section 8 extended service




9


The service of conducting the review and making the recommendations as
described in section 8 is an extended service.

[en. B.C. Reg. 103/99.]





Emergency communications




10


The Capital Regional District is granted the additional power as an
extended service to provide an emergency communications service or to
make contributions towards the cost of an emergency communications
service operated by another person or organization.

[en. B.C. Reg. 179/2000.]





Voting on Part 14 decisions for the Juan de Fuca Electoral Area




11

(1)


This section applies if




(a)

a resolution or bylaw under Part 14
[Planning and Land Use Management]
of the

Local Government Act

applies only to




(i)

all or part of the Langford Electoral Area, as it existed on
September 1, 1999, or




(ii)

all or part of the Sooke Electoral Area, as it existed on
September 1, 1999, and




(b)

voting on the resolution or bylaw would otherwise be subject to the
voting rule established by section 207 (5)
[all directors vote if only one otherwise entitled]
of the

Local Government Act

,


and operates to provide exceptions to the rule established by that
section.




(2)

If the resolution or bylaw applies only to all or part of what was the
Sooke Electoral Area, the persons entitled to vote on the resolution
or bylaw are




(a)

the directors for




(i)

the Juan de Fuca Electoral Area,




(ii)

the City of Colwood,




(iii)

the District of Metchosin, and




(iv)

the District of Sooke, and




(b)

one director for the District of Langford, who must be




(i)

the mayor of the municipality, or




(ii)

if the mayor is not on the board, another director for that
municipality who is chosen by the chair of the board to represent the
municipality in these matters.




(3)

If the resolution or bylaw applies only to all or part of what was the
Langford Electoral Area, the persons entitled to vote on the
resolution or bylaw are




(a)

the directors for




(i)

the Juan de Fuca Electoral Area,




(ii)

the District of Central Saanich,




(iii)

the District of Highlands,




(iv)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 126/2013, s. 2 (a).]




(b)

one director for the District of Saanich, who must be




(i)

the mayor of the municipality, or




(ii)

if the mayor is not on the board, another director for that
municipality who is chosen by the chair of the board to represent the
municipality in these matters, and




(c)

one director for the District of Langford, who must be




(i)

the mayor of the municipality, or




(ii)

if the mayor is not on the board, another director for that
municipality who is chosen by the chair of the board to represent the
municipality in these matters.




(4)

For the purposes of transition, if an affected bylaw has been given
first reading but has not been adopted at the time this section comes
into force, this section applies only to votes in relation to the
bylaw that happen after that time.


[en. B.C. Reg. 287/2001; am. B.C. Regs. 126/2013, ss. 1 and 2;
117/2018, s. 3.]






Acquiring access to regional trails




12


For the purpose of establishing and maintaining a regional trail, the
Capital Regional District is granted the additional power to acquire,
by lease, licence or permit for any term, access to or over land
within an area designated as set out in section 4 (1) (a) of the

Park (Regional) Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 78/2001.]





Emergency Program Act




13


The Capital Regional District is granted the same power that a
municipality has as a local authority under the

Emergency Program Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 126/2004.]





Public health




14


The Capital Regional District is granted the additional power to
exercise the powers conferred on a council of a municipality under
section 8 (3) (i) of the

Community Charter

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 2/2007.]





Animal control authority — domestic cats




15

(1)


The Capital Regional District may, by bylaw, regulate or prohibit the
keeping of domestic cats and define areas in which domestic cats may
be kept or may not be kept.




(2)

For the purposes of enforcing a bylaw under subsection (1), the
Capital Regional District may, by bylaw, do one or more of the
following:




(a)

provide for the seizure, impounding and detention of domestic cats
that are being kept in contravention of a bylaw under subsection (1);




(b)

establish, maintain and operate facilities as pounds for domestic cats
seized, impounded or detained under paragraph (a);




(c)

regulate and establish the fines and fees, including damages for
domestic cats trespassing on private property, to be levied and
collected by pound keepers;




(d)

provide for the sale or destruction of impounded domestic cats if the
fines and fees are not paid within a reasonable time.

[en. B.C. Reg. 245/2009.]





Stormwater Source Control Program




16

(1)


The Capital Regional District is granted the additional power to
exercise the powers conferred on a council of a municipality under
section 8 (3) (j) of the

Community Charter

for the purposes of regulating, prohibiting and imposing requirements
in respect of discharges to the municipal stormwater system and
watercourses.




(2)

This power is limited in application to the geographic areas of the
municipalities of Central Saanich, North Saanich and Sidney.

[en. B.C. Reg. 340/2012.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Local Government Act

, R.S.B.C. 2015, c. 1, section 296;

Community Charter

, S.B.C. 2003, c. 26, section 281]



