







B.C. Reg. 392/2008

904/2008


Deposited December 9, 2008






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Climate Change Accountability Act


Carbon Neutral Government Regulation


[Last amended December 19, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 271/2022]






Definitions




1

(1)


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Climate Change Accountability Act

;



"carbon dioxide equivalent"

means the mass of carbon dioxide that would produce the same global
warming impact as a given mass of another greenhouse gas, as
determined using the 100 year time horizon global warming potential
set out in column 4 of the Schedule;


"director"
means the government employee designated in writing by the minister as
director for the purposes of the Act;



"responsible minister"

, in relation to a public sector organization, means the minister who
is the appropriate minister within the meaning of section 24 of the

Financial Administration Act

.




(2)

In the Act and this regulation:



"public business"

, in relation to the Provincial government, means business necessary
or ancillary to a public official's duties;



"public official"

means




(a)

a member of the Legislative Assembly and any person on the member's
staff,




(b)

an employee of the government of British Columbia,




(c)

a member or employee of a tribunal as defined in the

Administrative Tribunals Act

and includes a member or employee of the Forests Appeals Commission
continued under section 194 of the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

,




(d)

a provincial court judge, justice of the peace or judicial justice,




(e)

an employee of the Legislative Assembly, including a permanent officer
of the Legislative Assembly appointed under section 39 (1) of the

Constitution Act

, or




(f)

an officer of the legislature within the meaning of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

and an employee of an officer of the legislature

but does not include



(g)

an officer or employee of a government body within the meaning of the

Financial Administration Act

;



"Treasury Board"

means the Treasury Board continued by the

Financial Administration Act

.

[am. B.C. Regs. 55/2010, s. 1; 66/2021.]





Excluded organization




2


Canadian Blood Services is excluded from the definition of "public
sector organization" in section 1 of the Act.






How measurements of emissions are to be expressed




3


For the purposes of the Act, greenhouse gas emissions must be
expressed in tonnes based on their carbon dioxide equivalencies and
tonnes of each specific greenhouse gas listed in the Schedule.






PSO sources of greenhouse gas emissions




4

(1)


In this section:


"building"
includes a structure or other permanent improvement;


"equipment"
includes components of an information technology system;



"indirect energy emissions"

, in relation to a public sector organization or the supply of a good
or service, means greenhouse gas emissions specifically associated
with the production of electricity, steam, heating or cooling that is
consumed or used by the organization or supplier.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), the following greenhouse gas emissions are
deemed to be PSO greenhouse gas emissions:




(a)

direct emissions and indirect energy emissions from the heating, air
conditioning and lighting of a building or portion of a building owned
or leased by the public sector organization, other than the heating,
air conditioning and lighting of a building that is leased to another
public sector organization;




(b)

direct emissions and indirect energy emissions from the operation of
appliances, equipment and machinery, other than mobile combustion
sources, owned or leased by the public sector organization;




(c)

direct emissions from the operation of a vehicle or other mobile
combustion source, other than a public transit or school bus owned or
leased by the public sector organization;




(d)

in relation to the Provincial government, direct emissions and
indirect energy emissions from the supply of travel and accommodation
services to a public official who is travelling on public business for
which travel expenses and accommodation expenses are covered by the
consolidated revenue fund;




(e)

direct emissions from the production of office paper purchased by the
public sector organization for use in its business.




(3)

Greenhouse gas emissions from an electricity generating facility or
electricity transmission equipment operated by the British Columbia
Hydro and Power Authority or British Columbia Transmission Corporation
are not emissions for which that authority or corporation are deemed
to be responsible under the Act.

[am. B.C. Reg. 272/2009, App. B, s. 1.]





Additional reporting requirements




5


In addition to the requirements of the Act and this regulation
relating to PSO greenhouse gas emissions, a public sector organization
must determine and report greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the
operation of a public transit bus or school bus that is owned or
leased by the public sector organization.






How emissions and their levels are to be determined




6


A public sector organization must determine, report and verify
greenhouse gas emissions in the manner and form specified by the
director.






Emission offsets




7

(1)


A public sector organization, other than the government, that is
required to apply emission offsets in order to be carbon neutral must
do so by requesting that the minister apply the emission offsets on
behalf of the public sector organization.




(2)

If the government is required to apply emission offsets in order to be
carbon neutral, the minister must apply the emission offsets on behalf
of the government.




(3)

Subject to any directives of the Treasury Board, the minister may set
the terms and conditions for the application of emission offsets on
behalf of a public sector organization.

[en. B.C. Reg. 124/2014, App. 1.]





Repealed




8


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 193/2014.]




Schedule


[en. B.C. Reg. 124/2014, App. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 271/2022.]


Specified Gases and Their Global Warming Potentials






Column 1


Item



Column 2


Specified Gas



Column 3


Chemical Formula



Column 4



Global Warming Potential


(100 year time horizon)





1
Carbon dioxide

CO
2

1


2
Methane

CH
4

28


3
Nitrous oxide

N
2
O

265


4
HFC-23

CHF
3

12 400


5
HFC-32

CH
2
F
2

677


6
HFC-41

CH
3
F

116


7
HFC-43-10mee

C
5
H
2
F
10

1 650


8
HFC-125

C
2
HF
5

3 170


9
HFC-134

C
2
H
2
F
4
(CHF
2
CHF
2
)

1 120


10
HFC-134a

C
2
H
2
F
4
(CH
2
FCF
3
)

1 300


11
HFC-143

C
2
H
3
F
3
(CHF
2
CH
2
F)

328


12
HFC-143a

C
2
H
3
F
3
(CF
3
CH
3
)

4 800


13
HFC-152a

C
2
H
4
F
2
(CH
3
CHF
2
)

138


14
HFC-227ea

C
3
HF
7

3 350


15
HFC-236fa

C
3
H
2
F
6

8 060


16
HFC-245ca

C
3
H
3
F
5

716


17
Perfluoromethane

CF
4

6 630


18
Perfluoroethane

C
2
F
6

11 100


19
Perfluoropropane

C
3
F
8

8 900


20
Perfluorobutane

C
4
F
10

9 200


21
Perfluorocyclobutane

c-C
4
F
8

9 540


22
Perfluoropentane

C
5
F
12

8 550


23
Perfluorohexane

C
6
F
14

7 910


24
Sulphur hexafluoride

SF
6

23 500




[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Climate Change Accountability Act

, S.B.C. 2007, c. 42, s. 12.]



