







B.C. Reg. 94/2009

M 81/2009


Deposited March 13, 2009

effective March 16, 2009





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to Point in Time




Wildlife Act


Controlled Alien Species Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 78/2017, March 2, 2017]




Part 1 — Interpretation and Designation





Definitions




1

(1)


In this regulation:



"accredited zoo or aquarium"

means a zoo or an aquarium that




(a)

is accredited by Canada's Accredited Zoos and Aquariums, or




(b)

provides proof to the satisfaction of the director of meeting or
exceeding the accreditation standards set by Canada's Accredited Zoos
and Aquariums;


"Act"
means the

Wildlife Act

;



"aquatic invasive species individual"

means a single live member of a controlled alien species designated in
Schedule 3 or 4, at any developmental stage;


"BC waters"
includes




(a)

any part of a body of water that is located in British Columbia,




(b)

fish habitat as defined in the Water Sustainability Regulation,




(c)

a stream as defined in the

Water Sustainability Act

,




(d)

a ditch, and




(e)

any of the following that may leak, drain or empty, directly or
indirectly, into any part of a body of water, fish habitat, stream or
ditch referred to in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d):




(i)

a naturally-formed pool of water other than one referred to in
paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d);




(ii)

a storm drain, sewer or other artificial conduit;




(iii)

a tank or other container that holds or is intended to hold water or
wastewater;



"certified educational institution"

means a body that




(a)

is an educational body within the meaning of paragraph (a), (c), (d)
or (d.1) of Schedule 1 of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, and




(b)

holds a valid Certificate of Good Animal Practice issued by the
Canadian Council on Animal Care;



"certified research institution"

means a body that




(a)

holds a valid Certificate of Good Animal Practice issued by the
Canadian Council on Animal Care, and




(b)

publishes the results of original research in a peer-reviewed
scientific journal at least once each year;


"mussel"
means a single member, live or dead, of a controlled alien species
designated in Schedule 4, and if live, at any developmental stage;



"prohibited species individual"

means any of the following:




(a)

a single live member of a controlled alien species designated in
Schedule 1, at any developmental stage;




(b)

a single live member of a controlled alien species designated in
section 1 (1) or (2) of Schedule 2 that is 3 metres or more in length
when measured from the front of the snout to the tip of the tail while
the animal is fully extended;




(c)

a single live member of a controlled alien species designated in
section 1 (3) of Schedule 2 that is 2 metres or more in length when
measured from the front of the snout to the tip of the tail while the
animal is fully extended;


"release"
includes, for the purpose of applying section 7 (3) of this regulation
and section 77 (2) of the Act to a mussel, allowing the mussel to come
into contact with BC waters;



"restricted species individual"

means a single live member of a controlled alien species designated in
Schedule 2, at any developmental stage, but does not include a
prohibited species individual.




(2)

In Schedules 1 to 4, if a reference to a species is followed by
italicized text in square brackets that is or purports to be
descriptive of the species, the italicized text in square brackets is
not part of this regulation and is to be considered to have been added
editorially for convenience of reference only.


[am. B.C. Regs. 233/2009, App. A, s. 1; 402/2012, s. 2; 48/2014, s. 1;
89/2016; 213/2016.]






Designation of species as controlled alien species




2


For the purposes of paragraph (a) of the definition of
"controlled alien species"
in section 1 (1) of the Act, the species listed in Schedules 1 to 4
are designated as controlled alien species.


[am. B.C. Regs. 233/2009, App. A, s. 2; 402/2012, s. 3.]




Part 2 — Species for Which a Permit Is Required





Possession




3


A person must not possess a prohibited species individual unless the
person holds a permit authorizing the possession of that prohibited
species individual.


[en. B.C. Reg. 94/2009, Sch. B, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 233/2009, App. B,
s. 1; 402/2012, s. 5; 60/2013.]






Breeding




4

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), a person who possesses a prohibited species
individual must prevent the prohibited species individual from
breeding.




(2)

A person who possesses a prohibited species individual may allow the
prohibited species individual to breed if




(a)

the person




(i)

operates an accredited zoo or aquarium,




(ii)

is a certified educational institution, or




(iii)

is a certified research institution,




(b)

the person holds a permit authorizing the person to allow that
prohibited species individual to breed, and




(c)

the breeding is in accordance with a management plan approved by a
regional manager.


[am. B.C. Regs. 233/2009, App. A, s. 3; 94/2009, App. B, s. 2;
402/2012, s. 6.]






Release prohibited




5


A person must not release a restricted species individual or
prohibited species individual or allow a restricted species individual
or prohibited species individual to be released, or to escape.


[am. B.C. Regs. 233/2009, App. A, s. 4; 402/2012, s. 7.]






Shipping or transportation




5.1


A person must not ship or transport in British Columbia a prohibited
species individual unless the person holds a permit authorizing the
shipping or transportation of the prohibited species individual.


[en. B.C. Reg. 94/2009, Sch. B, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 233/2009, App. B,
s. 2.]






Offences




6

(1)


A person who contravenes any of the following sections commits an
offence:




(a)

section 3;




(b)

section 4 (1);




(c)

section 5;




(d)

section 5.1.




(2)

An offence under subsection (1) (b) or (c) is prescribed as an offence
for the purposes of section 84 (1) (a) (ii) of the Act.




(3)

An offence under subsection (1) (a) is prescribed as an offence for
the purposes of section 84 (1) (b) (ii) of the Act.

[am. B.C. Reg. 94/2009, Sch. B, s. 4.]



Part 3 — Aquatic Invasive Species Individuals





Prohibitions




7

(1)


A person must not possess an aquatic invasive species individual.




(2)

A person who possesses an aquatic invasive species individual must
prevent the aquatic invasive species individual from breeding.




(3)

A person must not




(a)

release into BC waters an aquatic invasive species individual, or




(b)

allow an aquatic invasive species individual to be released, or to
escape, into BC waters.




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 48/2014, s. 2 (b).]




(4)

A person must not ship or transport in British Columbia an aquatic
invasive species individual.


[en. B.C. Reg. 402/2012, s. 8; am. B.C. Reg. 48/2014, s. 2.]






Dead mussels also prohibited




7.1


The prohibitions set out in section 7 (1), (3) and (4) also apply to
dead mussels and, for this purpose, sections 33 (2), 37 and 77 (2) of
the Act apply as if a dead mussel were wildlife or an animal.

[en. B.C. Reg. 48/2014, s. 3.]





Certified educational and research institutions exempt




8

(1)


A certified educational institution and a certified research
institution are exempt from




(a)

the prohibitions set out in section 7 (1) and (4),




(b)

the requirement set out in section 7 (2), and




(c)

section 7.1, in respect of the application of section 7 (1) and (4) to
dead mussels.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1) (c), a person is exempt from the
prohibitions set out in section 7 (1) and (4) in respect of a dead
mussel if




(a)

the dead mussel is fully encased in an acrylic resin or similar
material, and




(b)

the person is using the dead mussel for an educational or public
awareness purpose.


[en. B.C. Reg. 402/2012, s. 8; am. B.C. Reg. 48/2014, s. 4.]






Preventing entry or spread of mussels




9

(1)


In this section:



"boat or water equipment"

means any of the following items:




(a)

a boat, including personal watercraft;




(b)

a boat trailer;




(c)

any item used for fishing;




(d)

any item used for water-based recreational activities;




(e)

any equipment associated with, and any component of, a thing referred
to in any of paragraphs (a) to (d);



"contaminated province or state"

means any of the following:




(a)

a jurisdiction listed in Schedule 5;




(b)

a province or territory of Canada or a state of the United States of
America that is not listed in Schedule 5 but has within its
jurisdiction one or more bodies of water that are contaminated with
mussels;



"decontamination order"

means an order issued by an officer under subsection (3).




(2)

An officer may issue a decontamination order in respect of a boat or
water equipment if any of the following circumstances exist:




(a)

the officer has visually inspected the boat or water equipment and
found signs that that boat or water equipment may be or may have been
contaminated with mussels;




(b)

the boat or water equipment is owned, or is registered, licensed,
insured or otherwise authorized to be possessed or operated, in a
contaminated province or state;




(c)

the officer has reason to believe that the boat or water equipment has
been operated in, or has otherwise come into contact with, the waters
of a contaminated province or state;




(d)

the officer has reason to believe that a person may be in violation of
section 7 of this regulation or any of sections 33 (2), 37 or 77 (2)
of the Act with respect to mussels.




(3)

An officer may issue a decontamination order requiring a person to do
one or more of the following:




(a)

remove mussels from a boat or water equipment within a reasonable
period of time as specified in the order;




(b)

comply with any written directions contained in or attached to the
order with respect to the removal of mussels;




(c)

report, within the time and to the officer specified in the order,




(i)

with proof, satisfactory to the specified officer, of compliance with
the order, or




(ii)

for the purposes of further inspection by the specified officer of the
boat or water equipment that is the subject of the order.




(4)

A person to whom a decontamination order is issued must




(a)

comply with the order, and




(b)

ensure that the boat or water equipment to which the order applies
does not come into contact with BC waters until the order has been
complied with.




(5)

A person who engages in procedures to remove mussels from a boat or
water equipment must ensure that water used in those procedures does
not come into contact with BC waters.




(6)

For the purposes of subsection (3) (c), an officer may be specified by
name or by class.


[en. B.C. Reg. 402/2012, s. 8; am. B.C. Reg. 48/2014, s. 5.]






Immediate destruction




9.1


The disposal power set out in section 97.3 of the Act applies to an
aquatic invasive species individual and to a dead mussel as if the
aquatic invasive species individual or dead mussel were wildlife.

[en. B.C. Reg. 48/2014, s. 6.]





Offences




10

(1)


A person who contravenes any of the following commits an offence:




(a)

section 7 (1);




(b)

section 7 (2);




(c)

section 7 (3);




(d)

section 7 (4);




(e)

section 9 (4);




(f)

section 9 (5).




(2)

An offence under subsection (1) (c) is prescribed as an offence for
the purposes of section 84 (1) (a) (ii) of the Act.




(3)

An offence under subsection (1) (e) is prescribed as an offence for
the purposes of section 84 (1) (b) (ii) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 402/2012, s. 8.]



Schedule 1


[am. B.C. Regs. 233/2009, App. A, ss. 5 and 6; 402/2012, s. 9; 48/2014,
s. 7.]


(section 2)






1


Mammals of the following species:




(a)

all species of the order
Primate [monkeys, gorillas and chimpanzees]
except humans;




(b)

all species of the order
Proboscidae [elephants]
;




(c)

all species of the family
Canidae [dingos, jackals and raccoon-dogs]
, except the following:




(i)

Alopex lagopus [arctic fox]
;




(ii)

Canis latrans [coyote]
that are native species;




(iii)

Canis lupus [wolf]
that are native species;




(iv)

Canis lupus familiarus [domestic dog]
;




(v)

Urocyon cinereoargenteus [grey fox]
;




(vi)

Vulpes macrotis [kit fox]
;




(vii)

Vulpes vulpes [red fox
];




(d)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 233/2009, App. A, s. 5 (a).]




(e)

all species of the family
Hippopotamidae [hippopotamus]
;




(f)

all species of the family
Hyaenidae [hyenas and aardwolves]
;




(g)

all species of the family
Rhinocerotidae [rhinoceros]
;




(h)

all species of the family
Ursidae [bears]
, except the following:




(i)

Ursus americanus [black bear]
;




(ii)

Ursus arctos [grizzly bear]
;




(i)

all species of the subfamily
Pantherinae [big cats such as lions, tigers and panthers]
;




(i.1)

all species of the genus
Giraffa [giraffes]
;




(j)

Acinonyx jubatus [cheetah]
;




(k)

Bos frontalis [gaur]
;




(l)

Lynx lynx [Eurasian lynx]
;




(m)

Lynx pardinus [Iberian lynx]
;




(n)

Syncerus caffer [African buffalo]
.







2


Birds of the following species:




(a)

all species of the genus
Casuarius [cassowaries]
.







3


Amphibians of the following species:




(a)

Phyllobates aurotaenia [kokoe poison arrow frog]
;




(b)

Phyllobates bicolour [two-toned poison arrow frog]
;




(c)

Phyllobates terribilis [golden poison arrow frog]
.







4

(1)


Reptiles of the following species:




(a)

all species of the order
Crocodilia [alligators, crocodiles and caimans]
;




(a.1)

all species of the family

Atractaspididae [mole vipers, stiletto snakes and burrowing asps]

;




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 233/2009, App. A, s. 6 (c).]




(c)

all species of the family
Crotalidae [pit vipers]
except
Crotalus oreganus [western rattlesnake]
;




(d)

all species of the family
Elapidae [death adders, cobras, kraits and mambas]
;




(e)

all species of the family
Helodermatidae [gila monsters and beaded lizards]
;




(e.1)

all species of the family
Hydrophiidae [sea snakes and kraits]
;




(f)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 233/2009, App. A, s. 6 (c).]




(g)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 402/2012, s. 9 (a).]




(h)

all species of the family
Viperidae [vipers]
.




(i) to (n)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 233/2009, App. A, s. 6 (c).]




(2)

Reptiles of the following species of the family
Boidae
:




(a)

all species of the genus
Eunectes [anacondas]
;




(b)

Epicrates angulifer [Cuban boa]
.




(3)

Reptiles of the following species of the family
Colubridae [venomous snakes]
:




(a)

all species of the genus
Boiga [cat and mangrove snakes]
;




(b)

all species of the genus
Dispholidus [boomslang snakes]
;




(c)

all species of the genus
Elapomorphus [diadem and lizard-eating snakes]
;




(d)

all species of the genus
Hydrodynastes [false water cobras]
;




(e)

all species of the genus
Leptophis [parrot snakes]
;




(f)

all species of the genus
Phalotris [Argentinean black-headed snakes]
;




(g)

all species of the genus
Philodryas [green racers]
;




(h)

all species of the genus
Ptychophis [fanged water snakes]
;




(i)

all species of the genus
Rhabdophis [keelback snakes]
;




(j)

all species of the genus
Tachymenis [Boulenger's and Chilean slender snakes]
;




(k)

all species of the genus
Thelotornis [twig snakes]
;




(l)

all species of the genus
Xenodon [false fer-de-lance]
.




(4)

Reptiles of the following species of the family
Pythonidae
:




(a)

Morelia amethistina [amethystine python]
;




(b)

Morelia boeleni [Boelen's python]
;




(c)

Morelia clastolepis [Seram scrub python]
;




(d)

Morelia kinghorni [Australian scrub python]
;




(e)

Morelia oenpelliensis [Oenpelli python]
;




(e.1)

Python bivittatus [Burmese python]
;




(f)

Python molurus [Indian python]
;




(g)

Python natalensis [South African rock python]
;




(h)

Python reticulatus [reticulated python]
;




(i)

Python sebae [African rock python]
.




(5)

Reptiles of the following species of the family
Varanidae:




(a)

Varanus bengalensis [Bengal monitor and clouded monitor]
;




(b)

Varanus giganteus [perentie]
;




(c)

Varanus komodoensis [komodo dragon]
;




(d)

Varanus niloticus [Nile monitor and water leguaan]
;




(e)


Varanus salvadorii [Salvadori's monitor and crocodile monitor]

;




(f)

Varanus salvator [Asiatic water monitor and water monitor]
;




(g)

Varanus varius [lace goanna]
.




Schedule 2


[en. B.C. Reg. 233/2009, App. A, s. 7; am. B.C. Regs. 402/2012, s. 10;
48/2014, s. 8.]


(section 2)






1

(1)


Reptiles of the following species of the family
Boidae
:




(a)

Acrantophis madagascariensis [Madagascan ground boa]
;




(b)

Boa constrictor [boa constrictor]
.




(2)

Reptiles of the following species of the family
Pythonidae
:




(a)

Apodora papuana [Papuan python]
;




(b)

Aspidites melanocephalus [black-headed python]
;




(c)

Aspidites ramsayi [woma]
;




(d)

Liasis fuscus [Australian brown python]
;




(e)

Liasis mackloti [water python]
;




(f)

Liasis olivaceus [Australian olive python]
;




(g)

Morelia spilota [carpet python]
.




(3)

Reptiles of the family
Varanidae
, other than reptiles of the species listed in section 4 (5) of
Schedule 1.




Schedule 3

[en. B.C. Reg. 402/2012, s. 11.]

(section 2)






1

(1)


Fish of the following species of the family
Channidae:




(a)

all species of the genus
Channa [Asian snakeheads]
;




(b)

all species of the genus
Parachanna [African snakeheads]
.




(2)


Misgurnus anguillicaudatus [oriental weatherfish or weather loach]

of the family
Cobitidae
.




(3)

Fish of the following species of the family
Cyprinidae
:




(a)

Ctenopharyngodon idella [grass carp]
;




(b)

Hypophthalmichthys molitrix [silver carp]
;




(c)

Hypophthalmichthys nobilis [bighead carp]
;




(d)

Mylopharyngodon piceus [black carp]
;




(e)

all species of the genus
Rhodeus [bitterlings]
;




(f)

Tanichthys albonubes [White Cloud Mountain minnow]
;




(g)

Tinca tinca [tench]
.




(4)

Fish of the following species of the family
Gobiidae:




(a)

Neogobius fluviatilis [monkey goby]
;




(b)

Neogobius melanostomus [round goby]
;




(c)

Proterorhinus semilunaris [tubenose goby]
;




(d)

Rhinogobius brunneus [Amur goby]
.




(5)

All fish species of the family

Ictaluridae [including bullheads, channel catfish and madtoms]

.




(6)

Gambusia affinis [western mosquitofish]
of the family
Poeciliidae
.




Schedule 4

[en. B.C. Reg. 402/2012, s. 11.]

(section 2)






1


Mussels of the following species of the family
Dreissenidae:




(a)

Dreissena polymorpha [zebra mussel]
;




(b)

Dreissena rostriformis bugensis [quagga mussel]
;




(c)

Mytilopsis leucophaeata [Conrad's false mussel]
.




Schedule 5


[en. B.C. Reg. 402/2012, s. 11; am. B.C. Regs. 48/2014, s. 9; 78/2017.]


(section 9)






1


The following provinces of Canada:




(a)

Ontario;




(b)

Québec;




(c)

Manitoba;




(d)

Saskatchewan.







2


The following states of the United States of America:




(a)

Alabama;




(b)

Arizona;




(c)

Arkansas;




(d)

California;




(e)

Colorado;




(f)

Connecticut;




(g)

Illinois;




(h)

Indiana;




(i)

Iowa;




(j)

Kansas;




(k)

Kentucky;




(l)

Louisiana;




(m)

Maryland;




(n)

Massachusetts;




(o)

Michigan;




(p)

Minnesota;




(q)

Mississippi;




(r)

Missouri;




(r.1)

Montana;




(s)

Nebraska;




(t)

Nevada;




(u)

New Mexico;




(v)

New York;




(w)

North Dakota;




(x)

Ohio;




(y)

Oklahoma;




(z)

Pennsylvania;




(aa)

South Dakota;




(bb)

Tennessee;




(cc)

Texas;




(dd)

Utah;




(ee)

Vermont;




(ff)

West Virginia;




(gg)

Wisconsin.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Wildlife Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 488, sections 6.4 to 6.6, 108 and 109]



