







B.C. Reg. 309/90

O.C. 1337/90


Deposited September 7, 1990

effective September 15, 1990





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Credit Union Incorporation Act



Credit Union Disclosure Statement

Exemptions Regulation



[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 518/2004, January 1, 2005]






Interpretation




1


In this regulation,
"the Act"
means the

Credit Union Incorporation Act

.






Exemption for equity shares




2

(1)


Any equity share in a credit union that is not a membership share
other than an equity share in a central credit union that is issued
only to members of the central credit union is a prescribed type of
equity share for the purpose of section 62 (3) (b) (i) of the Act if




(a)

one or more of that type of equity shares is issued at a cost to the
person acquiring the shares of not more than $5 000, or




(b)

one or more of that type of equity shares is issued at a cost to the
person acquiring the shares that brings the aggregate acquisition
costs of that person's shares of that type, whenever issued, to no
more than $5 000.




(2)

Any equity share in a central credit union that is not a membership
share and that is issued only to members of the central credit union
is a prescribed type of equity share for the purpose of section 62 (3)
(b) (i) of the Act.

[am. B.C. Reg. 82/91, s. 2.]





Exemption for other securities




3


Any security instrument in a credit union, other than an equity share,
is a prescribed type of security instrument for the purpose of section
62 (3) (b) (ii) of the Act if




(a)

under section 75 of the

Securities Act

, section 61 of that Act does not apply to a distribution of the
security instrument,




(b)

a preliminary prospectus and a prospectus have been filed for the
security instrument and receipts obtained under section 61 of the

Securities Act

, or




(c)

the security instrument is in respect of the sale or lease of a
development unit, within the meaning of the

Real Estate Development Marketing Act

, for which a disclosure statement has been filed under that Act in
relation to the development property in which the development unit is
located.

[am. B.C. Reg. 518/2004, Sch. s. 4.]





Prescribed form of disclosure statement




4


In addition to the requirements for a disclosure statement in section
62 of the Act, the form of disclosure statement referred to in that
section shall be in a form that conforms to the requirements set out
in the attached form entitled "Requirements for Disclosure
Statements".




Requirements for Disclosure Statements Form

[en. B.C. Reg. 82/91, s. 2.]










[Provisions of the

Credit Union Incorporation Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 82, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 108]



