







B.C. Reg. 97/2012

O.C. 261/2012


Deposited April 30, 2012

effective June 1, 2012





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Motor Vehicle Act



Designation of Motorcycle

Safety Helmets Regulation



[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 179/2019, July 19, 2019]





Motorcycle safety helmet standards




1


For the purposes of section 194 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

, a motorcycle safety helmet that meets at least one of the following
requirements is designated as an approved motorcycle safety helmet:




(a)

certification in accordance with the Snell Memorial Foundation 2005
Standard for Protective Headgear For Use with Motorcycles and Other
Motorized Vehicles, as amended from time to time before or after the
making of this regulation;




(b)

certification in accordance with the Snell Memorial Foundation 2010
Standard for Protective Headgear For Use with Motorcycles and Other
Motorized Vehicles, as amended from time to time before or after the
making of this regulation;




(b.1)

certification in accordance with the Snell Memorial Foundation 2015
Standard for Protective Headgear For Use with Motorcycles and Other
Motorized Vehicles, as amended from time to time before or after the
making of this regulation;




(b.2)

certification in accordance with the Snell Memorial Foundation 2020
Standard for Protective Headgear For Use with Motorcycles and Other
Motorized Vehicles, as amended from time to time before or after the
making of this regulation;




(c)

conformance with the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218;
Motorcycle helmets (United States of America), also known as FMVSS 218
(49 CFR 571.218), as amended from time to time before or after the
making of this regulation;




(d)

approved in accordance with the United Nations Economic Commission for
Europe (ECE) ECE Regulation No. 22 â€“ Uniform provisions concerning the
approval of protective helmets and of their visors for drivers and
passengers of motor cycles and mopeds, as amended from time to time
before or after the making of this regulation.

[am. B.C. Regs. 56/2015; 179/2019.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Motor Vehicle Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 318, ss. 194 and 210.]



