







B.C. Reg. 42/2006

M51/2006


Deposited March 10, 2006






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Community Charter


Dispute Resolution Regulation


[Last amended February 24, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 45/2022]






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Community Charter

;


"arbitrator"
means a person selected as an arbitrator under section 287 (b) or 288
(a) of the Act;


"party"
means a party to a dispute under section 284 (1) or 286 (1) of the
Act.






Application




2

(1)


This regulation applies to an arbitration under Division 3 of Part 9
of the Act.




(2)

The

Commercial Arbitration Act

does not apply to an arbitration conducted under Division 3 of
Part 9 of the Act.




Part 1 — General





Agreement on arbitration process




3

(1)


Subject to subsection (3), the parties may agree, no later than 28
days after the dispute resolution officer directs the dispute to
binding arbitration under section 285 or 286 (2) of the Act,
on the arbitration process they wish to use.




(2)

As soon as practicable after the time period described in subsection
(1), the parties must, in writing, advise the dispute resolution
officer of the agreement reached under subsection (1).




(3)

On request of a party, the dispute resolution officer may extend the
time period in subsection (1) if the dispute resolution officer
believes that an extension may facilitate agreement.






Statement of independence and impartiality




4

(1)


Before a person may be selected as an arbitrator, a signed statement
that the person knows of no circumstances likely to give rise to
justifiable doubts as to the person's independence or impartiality in
the dispute must be provided by the person to




(a)

the parties, and




(b)

the dispute resolution officer.




(2)

If circumstances that are likely to give rise to justifiable doubts as
to an arbitrator's independence or impartiality in the dispute arise
after the selection, the arbitrator must immediately




(a)

disclose the circumstances to




(i)

the parties, and




(ii)

the dispute resolution officer, and




(b)

resign, unless the parties and the arbitrator agree that the
arbitrator will continue to act as arbitrator despite the
circumstances.

[am. B.C. Reg. 45/2022, Sch. 1, s. 1.]





Appointment and replacement of arbitrator




5

(1)


No later than 28 days after the arbitration process has been agreed
upon by the parties or determined by the dispute resolution officer,
the parties must select an arbitrator from the list referred to in
section 289 (1) of the Act.




(2)

As soon as practicable after the time period in subsection (1), the
parties must, in writing, advise the dispute resolution officer of the
selection made under subsection (1).




(3)

On request of a party, the dispute resolution officer may extend the
time period in subsection (1) if the dispute resolution officer
believes that an extension would facilitate agreement.




(4)

On application of a party to the Supreme Court before conclusion of an
arbitration, the court may revoke the appointment of an arbitrator if
the court is satisfied that the arbitrator has, in the discharge of
the arbitrator's obligations,




(a)

breached section 6, 10 (b) or 15,




(b)

behaved in a corrupt or fraudulent manner,




(c)

shown bias,




(d)

exceeded the arbitrator's powers, or




(e)

failed to observe the rules of natural justice.




(5)

An arbitrator who




(a)

resigns because of circumstances referred to in section 4 (2) or for
another reason,




(b)

is unable or refuses to act, or




(c)

whose appointment is revoked under subsection (4)


must be replaced by another arbitrator selected in the manner
contemplated by the Act and this regulation.




(6)

An arbitrator who replaces an arbitrator may notify the parties




(a)

of a reasonable period of time, of not more than 14 days, that the
arbitrator requires to become acquainted with the arbitration, and




(b)

that the time limits and the running of time in respect of the time
limits in this regulation, except for that referred to in
paragraph (a), are suspended for the period of time and the
purpose referred to in paragraph (a).

[am. B.C. Reg. 45/2022, Sch. 1, s. 2.]





Communication between arbitrator and party




6


Except as expressly permitted by this regulation, an arbitrator and a
party must not engage in written or oral communications respecting the
disputed issues without full and immediate disclosure of the
communications to the other party.




Part 2 — Final Proposal Arbitration Process





Interpretation




7


In this Part,
"arbitration"
means the final proposal arbitration process under Division 3 of
Part 9 of the Act.






Representative of party




8


A party must, in writing, advise the arbitrator and the other party,
within 14 days of the date of the selection of the arbitrator, of the
name, address and telephone number of the individual who represents
that party.






Identification of disputed issues




9

(1)


Within 28 days of the date of selection of the arbitrator, the parties
must submit to the arbitrator a jointly prepared and agreed statement
that identifies the disputed issues.




(2)

Within 42 days of selection of the arbitrator, each of the parties
must file a written submission with the arbitrator and the other party
that




(a)

addresses all or any of the disputed issues identified in the
statement referred to in subsection (1) but no other issues,




(b)

explains the position the party takes on each disputed issue it
intends to address,




(c)

makes only one proposal to finally resolve each disputed issue,




(d)

includes copies of the documents on which the party relies, and




(e)

addresses the allocation of the fees and expenses of the arbitrator
and administrative costs referred to in
section 289 (2) (a) and (b) of the Act, if a
submission on this issue is intended to be made by the party.




(3)

A party may not




(a)

revise or amend its submission after the submission has been filed
with the arbitrator, or




(b)

rebut or refute information contained in the other party's submission.




(4)

Subsection (3) must not be construed to limit settlement discussions
between the parties.






No meetings about disputed issues




10


The arbitrator




(a)

is restricted to consideration of the written submissions filed by the
parties, and




(b)

may not meet with or discuss the disputed issues with the parties.






Replacement of arbitrator




11


An arbitrator who replaces an arbitrator must proceed with the
arbitration from the stage at which it stood when the former
arbitrator was replaced, and without limiting this, may not reconsider
a matter that has already been decided by the former arbitrator.






Decision of arbitrator




12

(1)


Unless the parties agree on a resolution of the disputed issues during
the arbitration or the dispute resolution officer extends the time
period, the arbitrator must settle the disputed issues within
63 days of the date of the selection of the arbitrator.




(2)

The arbitrator must give the selections under section 287 (c) of the
Act in writing and provide signed and dated copies of them to the
parties and the dispute resolution officer.

[am. B.C. Reg. 45/2022, Sch. 1, s. 3.]



Part 3 — Full Arbitration Process





Interpretation




13


In this Part,
"arbitration"
means the full arbitration process under Division 3 of Part 9 of the
Act.






Representative of party




14


A party must, in writing, advise the arbitrator and the other party,
within 14 days of the date of the selection of the arbitrator, of the
name, address and telephone number of the individual who represents
that party.






Communication




15

(1)


The arbitrator must not meet with or discuss the disputed issues with
a party or its representative or legal counsel unless the other party
or its representative or legal counsel is present.




(2)

Copies of




(a)

documents exchanged between the parties as required under this Part
must be given to the arbitrator, and




(b)

written communication between the arbitrator and a party must be given
to the other party at the same time.






Replacement of arbitrator




16

(1)


An arbitrator who replaces an arbitrator may determine the procedures
for the arbitration and the manner in which it will be continued.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the arbitrator may rehear or
reconsider a matter that has already been decided by the former
arbitrator.

[am. B.C. Reg. 45/2022, Sch. 1, s. 4.]





Conduct of arbitration




17

(1)


Subject to limitations in this Part or an agreement reached among the
parties and the arbitrator, the arbitrator may conduct the arbitration
in any manner the arbitrator considers appropriate and will facilitate
the just and timely resolution of the disputed issues.




(2)

The arbitrator may direct that a record be kept of the arbitration.




(3)

The arbitrator may not extend the period of time referred to in
section 25 (1).






Preliminary meeting




18

(1)


The arbitrator must convene a preliminary meeting, in person or by
telephone conference call, with the parties within 21 days of the
selection of the arbitrator to




(a)

identify the disputed issues,




(b)

discuss the procedures to be followed,




(c)

set time periods within which specified actions must be taken, and




(d)

discuss other matters that the arbitrator believes will facilitate the
arbitration to proceed in an efficient and timely manner.




(2)

The arbitrator must give the parties written directions on the matters
referred to in subsection (1) (b) and (c) as soon as
possible after the preliminary meeting.

[am. B.C. Reg. 45/2022, Sch. 1, s. 5.]





Exchange of statements




19

(1)


The parties must exchange written submissions of their positions on
the disputed issues in the following manner:




(a)

the party that applied to the dispute resolution officer under section
284 (1) or 286 (2) of the Act must give to the arbitrator and the
other party, no later than 28 days after the preliminary meeting
under section 18 is held, a submission outlining the disputed
issues, a discussion of its perspective on each issue and its proposal
to resolve each disputed issue;




(b)

the other party must give to the arbitrator and the other party, no
later than 14 days after receiving the submission referred to in
paragraph (a), a submission outlining its responses to the
submission referred to in paragraph (a).




(2)

A party must attach to its submission under subsection (1) a list of
documents




(a)

on which the party intends to rely, and




(b)

that describes each document by kind, date, author, addressee and
subject matter.




(3)

The arbitrator may at any time allow a party to amend or add to a
submission referred to in this section, including the list of
documents, if the arbitrator considers that the amendment or addition
is relevant to the arbitration.






Disclosure




20

(1)


The arbitrator may order a party to produce, within a specified time,
documents that




(a)

have not been listed under section 19 (2),




(b)

the party has in its care, custody or control, and




(c)

the arbitrator considers to be relevant.




(2)

A party must allow the other party access at reasonable times to
inspect and take copies of the documents that the party has listed
under section 19 (2) or that are the subject of an order
under subsection (1).




(3)

No later than 21 days before an oral hearing commences, a party must
give the other party and the arbitrator




(a)

the name and address of a witness it intends to call and a written
summary of the witness' evidence, and




(b)

in the case of an expert witness, a written statement or report
prepared by the expert witness.




(4)

No later than 14 days before an oral hearing commences, each party
must give to the other party and the arbitrator copies of the
documents on the list referred to in section 19 or that are the
subject of an order under subsection (1).






Oral hearings




21

(1)


The arbitrator must give the parties reasonable written notice of an
oral hearing.




(2)

Subject to a direction of the arbitrator, the oral hearings are open
to the public.




(3)

The dispute resolution officer may attend and observe any part of the
arbitration.






Evidence




22

(1)


Oral evidence must be taken




(a)

under oath, and




(b)

in the presence of the arbitrator and both of the parties, unless a
party fails to appear at a scheduled oral hearing or in writing,
waives the right to be present.




(2)

If the arbitrator permits the evidence of a witness to be presented as
a written statement or report, including that of an expert witness, a
party may require that the witness be made available for cross
examination at the oral hearing.






Default of party




23

(1)


If a party fails to provide the submission required by section 19 (1)
(b), the arbitrator must




(a)

continue the arbitration, and




(b)

require the party who gave a submission referred to in section 19 (1)
(a) to present the evidence to support its submission that the
arbitrator may require before making a decision.




(2)

The arbitrator may continue the arbitration and make a decision based
on the evidence presented if a party fails to




(a)

appear at a scheduled oral hearing, or




(b)

produce evidence.






Reopening the hearing




24


Subject to the time limits in this Part, if the arbitrator considers
it to be just and appropriate, the arbitrator may at any time before
making a decision reopen the hearings.






Decision of arbitrator




25

(1)


Unless the parties agree on a resolution of the disputed issues during
the arbitration or the dispute resolution officer extends the time for
the arbitrator to make a decision, the arbitrator must make a decision
as soon as possible and no later than 28 days after




(a)

oral hearings have been concluded, or




(b)

if no oral hearings have been held, the last written submission has
been filed with the arbitrator.




(2)

The decision of the arbitrator must be in writing, be signed and
dated, and state the reasons on which it is based.




(3)

The arbitrator must give a copy of the decision to the parties and to
the dispute resolution officer.






Amendment to and correction of the decision




26

(1)


The arbitrator may amend or vary the arbitrator's decision to correct




(a)

a clerical or typographical error, or




(b)

an accidental error, slip, omission or other similar mistake.




(2)

An application by a party to the arbitrator to amend or vary a
decision under subsection (1) must be made within 7 days after that
party receives the decision.




(3)

Within 7 days after receipt of the decision, a party may apply to the
arbitrator for clarification of the decision, and the arbitrator may
amend a part of the decision if the arbitrator considers that the
amendment will clarify the decision.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (2) or (3), the arbitrator may not
amend or vary the decision, without the consent of the parties, more
than 14 days after the parties have received the decision.

[am. B.C. Reg. 45/2022, Sch. 1, s. 6.]


[Provisions of the

Community Charter

, S.B.C. 2003, c. 26, s. 291.]



