







B.C. Reg. 88/2013

O.C. 123/2013


Deposited February 28, 2013

effective September 16, 2013





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act


Fare Infraction Review Referral Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

;



"arbitrator's decision"

means a decision made by an arbitrator under section 256 of the Act;



"chief judge"

means the chief judge of the Provincial Court;


"disputant"
means a person seeking to have an arbitrator's decision referred to
the Provincial Court for review;


"judge"
and
"justice"
have the same meanings as in the

Provincial Court Act

;



"judicial officer"

means a judge, and includes a justice if designated to act under this
regulation by the chief judge under section 11 (1) of the

Provincial Court Act

.






Receipt of arbitrator's decision




1.1

(1)


An arbitrator must set out in a notice of the arbitrator's decision
under section 256 of the Act the date the arbitrator, or a person
acting on behalf of the arbitrator, mails or emails that notice.




(2)

A disputant is conclusively deemed to have received a notice of an
arbitrator's decision under section 256 of the Act 14 days after the
date set out under subsection (1).

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2015.]





Starting a review




2


To refer an arbitrator's decision to the Provincial Court for review
in relation to a ticket issued under section 248 of the Act, the
disputant must complete a referral for review in Form 1 and swear or
affirm an affidavit in support in Form 2 and file those documents at
the Vancouver Small Claims Registry within the period referred to in
section 257 of the Act.






Service on the authority




3


The disputant must serve the authority with a copy of the filed
documents by




(a)

leaving them with a receptionist at, or




(b)

mailing them by registered mail to


the authority's address for service given on Form 1.

[am. B.C. Reg. 242/2013, s. (a).]





Authority must respond




4


In order to respond to the disputant's referral for review, the
authority must, within 28 days after service,




(a)

file at the Vancouver Small Claims Registry




(i)

a response to referral in Form 3, and




(ii)

any affidavit in support, in Form 4, that the authority wishes to
file, and




(b)

serve a copy of each of the filed documents on the disputant by




(i)

mailing those copies to the address for service shown for the
disputant on the referral for review,




(ii)

leaving them with the disputant, or




(iii)

emailing them to any email address shown for the disputant on the
referral for review.






Ticket cancelled on failure to respond




5


If the authority does not file a response to referral within the 28
day period referred to in section 4, the court must order the ticket
is cancelled if




(a)

the disputant files at the Vancouver Small Claims Registry




(i)

an application in Form 5, and




(ii)

a certificate of service in Form 6, and




(b)

the registrar of the court is satisfied that the authority did not
file a response to referral within the 28 day period referred to in
section 4.






If ticket cancelled




6


If the court orders that the ticket is cancelled under section 5, the
registrar must provide a copy of that order, in Form 7, to the
disputant and the authority in accordance with section 10.






Judicial officer may determine issue without a hearing




7


If the authority does file a response to referral within the 28 day
period referred to in section 4, a judicial officer may, after
considering the referral for review, the response to referral and the
affidavits filed in support,




(a)

order that the ticket is confirmed, or




(b)

determine that




(i)

the judicial officer is not able, without receiving additional
evidence, to decide whether the ground for cancellation referred to in
the referral for review applies to justify the cancellation of the
ticket, and




(ii)

as a result of the need for additional evidence, a hearing is
required.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 3.]





If ticket confirmed




8


If a judicial officer orders that the ticket is confirmed under
section 7 (a), the registrar of the court must provide a copy of that
order, in Form 7, to the disputant and the authority in accordance
with section 10.






If hearing required




9


If a judicial officer makes a determination under section 7 (b), the
registrar of the court must provide a notice of hearing in Form 8 to
the disputant and the authority in accordance with section 10.






Provision of notice




10


A document referred to in section 6, 8 or 9 must be provided as
follows:




(a)

to the disputant by mailing the document to the address shown for the
disputant on the referral for review or by emailing the document to
any email address shown for the disputant on the referral for review,
and




(b)

to the authority by mailing the document to the address shown for the
authority on the response to referral or by emailing the document to
any email address shown for the authority on the response to referral.






Proceedings at hearing




11


If, at the date, time and place set for the hearing in the notice of
hearing,




(a)

both a representative of the authority and the disputant attend, the
judicial officer may conduct the hearing,




(b)

the disputant attends but a representative of the authority does not
attend, the judicial officer may conduct the hearing and make an order
in the absence of the authority's representative, or




(c)

a representative of the authority attends but the disputant does not
attend, the ticket is confirmed and the disputant is indebted to the
authority under section 250 of the Act for the unpaid portion of the
ticketed amount.






Application of Small Claims Rules




12

(1)


Rules 8 (4) and (6), 10 (1), (2) and (11) to (13), 15 (1) and (2), 16
(2) (c.1), (3) to (5), (6) (a), (d) and (k.1) to (o), (7) to (11), 17
(4), (6), (7), (9) to (17) and (20), 18 (16) and (17) (a), 19 and 21
(2) of the Small Claims Rules apply to a dispute referred to in this
regulation.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), a reference in a provision of the
Small Claims Rules referred to in subsection (1) to any of the terms
referred to in Column 1 of the following table is deemed to be a
reference to the term set out opposite that term in Column 2 of that
table.





Column 1


Column 2





claim
referral for review


claimant
disputant


defendant
authority


judge
judicial officer


party
disputant or authority


reply
response to referral


trial
hearing



[am. B.C. Reg. 242/2013, s. (b).]





Decision at hearing




13


At a hearing referred to in section 11, the judicial officer
conducting the hearing may, by order,




(a)

confirm the ticket, or




(b)

if the disputant satisfies the judicial officer, on a balance of
probabilities, that one or more of the grounds referred to in section
253 (a) to (c) of the Act apply, cancel the ticket.






If ticket confirmed




14


If, under section 7 (a) or 13 (a) of this regulation, a judicial
officer confirms the ticket, the disputant is indebted to the
authority under section 250 of the Act for the unpaid portion of the
ticketed amount.






Transitional proceedings




15

(1)


In this section,
"interim referral for review"
means a document in Form 9.




(2)

If, before the coming into force of this section, a disputant mailed
an interim referral for review to the address shown at the bottom of
that form within 30 days after receiving notice under section 256 (2)
of the Act of the arbitrator's decision to which the interim referral
for review applies,




(a)

the interim referral for review and any affidavit submitted in support
must be provided by the Violation Ticket Centre to the Vancouver Small
Claims Registry, to the attention of the registrar of that court,




(b)

unless an affidavit in support of the interim referral for review was
submitted before October 16, 2013 to the address shown at the bottom
of that form, the disputant must, on or before October 16, 2013, swear
or affirm an affidavit in Form 2 and file that affidavit at the
Vancouver Small Claims Registry,




(c)

the registrar of the court must deliver to the authority a copy of the
interim referral for review and the supporting affidavit by




(i)

mailing them to the authority's head office at 287 Nelson's Court, New
Westminster, BC, V3L 0E7, or




(ii)

faxing them to a fax number provided by the authority for that
purpose,




(d)

in order to respond to the disputant's interim referral for review,
the authority must, within 28 days after delivery under paragraph (c),




(i)

file at the Vancouver Small Claims Registry




(A)

a response to referral in Form 3, and




(B)

any affidavit in support, in Form 4, that the authority wishes to
file, and




(ii)

serve a copy of each of the filed documents on the disputant by




(A)

mailing those copies to the address shown for the disputant on the
interim referral for review, or




(B)

leaving them with the disputant, and




(e)

sections 5 to 14 of this regulation apply, and for that purpose,




(i)

a reference in sections 5 to 14 and Forms 2 to 9 to a referral for
review is deemed to be a reference to the interim referral for review,




(ii)

a reference in Forms 2 and 3 to the date of filing of a referral for
review is deemed to be the date the interim referral for review was
received by the Violation Ticket Centre, and




(iii)

a reference in sections 5 and 7 to "the 28 day period referred to in
section 4" is deemed to be a reference to the 28 day period referred
to in paragraph (d) of this section.




Forms



Form 1 (Section 2)

[am. B.C. Reg. 242/2013, s. (c).]

REFERRAL FOR REVIEW



[South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act]



Registry File Number: ..............................

Court Location: Vancouver

In the Provincial Court of British Columbia

In the case between:


......................................................................[
name of person disputing the ticket
]

and
South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority

Filed by:


Name:
.......................................................................[
name of person disputing the ticket
]


[

Set out the street address of the address to which documents may be
mailed to you in relation to this dispute. An email address
ma
y be given as an additional
address
for service.

]


Address for service:
..........................................................................................................


City: ................................ Province: .....................
Postal Code: .....................................


Telephone number: ................................. Email:
..............................................................


Notice to:


South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority

Address for service: 400 – 287 Nelson's Court, New Westminster, BC, V3L
0E7





1 On ........................[
date
], a ticket was issued to .........................................[
name
] [

Attach a copy of the ticket in dispute to the affidavit filed in
support of this referral for review.

]


2 I appealed liability under the ticket to an arbitrator under section
253 of the
South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act
and by notice dated .......................[
date
] the arbitrator confirmed the ticket. [

Attach a copy of the arbitrator's notice to the affidavit filed in
support of this referral for review.

]


3 I am not satisfied with the arbitrator's decision. I believe that the
arbitrator erred in confirming the ticket because it is my belief that [
Select the box(es) that apply(ies).
]

[ ] I did not commit the infraction as alleged

[ ] the ticket does not comply with section 249 (1) of the
South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act
.


4 In support of this referral for review, I am filing an affidavit
setting out the relevant facts.

The court address for filing documents is:

Robson Square Provincial Court

#100 - 800 Hornby St.

Vancouver, BC V6Z 2C5


Dated: ................................................ Signature of
disputant: ......................................................



Form 2 (Section 2)

[am. B.C. Reg. 242/2013, s. (d).]

REFERRAL FOR REVIEW AFFIDAVIT



[South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act]



Registry File Number: ..............................

Court Location: Vancouver

In the Provincial Court of British Columbia

In the case between:


......................................................................[
name of person disputing the ticket
]

and
South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority




I, ....................[
name
]...................., of .....................[
address
]....................., ............[
occupation
]..............., SWEAR (OR AFFIRM) THAT:


1 I have read the referral for review signed on ................... [
date of signature
] and the facts set out in that referral for review are true.


2 Attached as Exhibit A to this affidavit is a copy of the ticket
referred to in section 1 of the referral for review.


3 Attached as Exhibit B to this affidavit is a copy of the arbitrator's
notice referred to in section 2 of the referral for review.


4 In support of my statement in section 3 of the referral for review,
the following facts are relevant and true:

[

Using separate paragraphs, set out the material facts that support the
statement set out in section 3 of the referral for review.

]

(a)
(b) etc.



SWORN (OR AFFIRMED) BEFORE
)

............................................................................




ME at ........................., British Columbia

)



on ...................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]............... .

)



)



..........................................................

)


A commissioner for taking
)


affidavits for British Columbia
)




....[
print name or affix stamp of commissioner
]...



Form 3 (Section 4)

[am. B.C. Reg. 242/2013, s. (c).]

RESPONSE TO REFERRAL



[South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act]



Registry File No. ..............................

Court Location: Vancouver

In the Provincial Court of British Columbia

In the case between:


.....................................................................[
name of person disputing the ticket
]

and
South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority




Filed by:


South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority (the "Authority")


Address for service: 400–287 Nelson's Court, New Westminster, BC, V3L
0E7


Email
....................................................................


Notice to:


Name:
...................................................................................(the
"Disputant")


Address for service:
....................................................................................................


City: .................................. Province: ....................
Postal Code: .................................


Email:
..................................................................





1 This response to referral is filed in response to the referral for
review filed by the Disputant on ...............................[
date of filing
].


2 On .........................[
date ticket was issued
], a ticket dated ...................[
date of ticket
] and numbered ........................[
number of ticket
] was issued to ...........................[
name
].


3 The basis for the dispute set out in section 3 of the referral for
review is not supportable because:
...................................................................................................
.


4 In support of this response to referral, the Authority


[ ] is filing an affidavit of ..................................[
name of person swearing the supporting affidavit
] setting out the relevant facts.

[ ] is not filing an affidavit.
The court address for filing documents is:

Robson Square Provincial Court

#100-800 Hornby St.

Vancouver, BC V6Z 2C5


Dated: ....................................... Signature of
representative for the Authority: ..................................



Form 4 (Section 4)

[am. B.C. Reg. 242/2013, s. (e).]

RESPONSE TO REFERRAL AFFIDAVIT



[South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act]



Registry File Number: ..............................

Court Location: Vancouver

In the Provincial Court of British Columbia

I, .....................[
name
]...................., of .....................[
address
]....................., ............[
occupation
]..............., SWEAR (OR AFFIRM) THAT:


1 I am ..................................[

indicate relationship to the South Coast British Columbia
Transportation Authority

].


2 I have read the response to referral signed on ................. [
date of signature
] and the facts set out in that response to referral are true.


3 In support of the response to referral, the following facts are
relevant and true:

[

Using separate paragraphs, set out the material facts that support the
ticket.

]

(a)
(b) etc.



SWORN (OR AFFIRMED) BEFORE ME
)

............................................................................



at ........................., British Columbia
)



on ...................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]............... .

)



)



..........................................................

)


A commissioner for taking
)


affidavits for British Columbia
)




....[
print name or affix stamp of commissioner
]....



Form 5 (Section 5)


APPLICATION



[South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act]



Registry File No. ..............................

Court Location: Vancouver

In the Provincial Court of British Columbia

In the case between:


.....................................................................[
name of person disputing the ticket
]

and
South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority




Filed by:


Name:
..........................................................................................
(the "Disputant")


Address for service:
................................................................................................


City: ................................ Province: ....................
Postal Code: ..............................


Email:
..................................................................





1 By referral for review filed on ..................[
date
], I did dispute my liability in relation to a ticket dated
.........................[
date of ticket
] and numbered ........................[
number of ticket
] (the "ticket") issued by or on behalf of the South Coast British
Columbia Transportation Authority (the "Authority").


2 A copy of the filed referral for review was served on the Authority on
......................[
date
] by

[ ] me

[ ] .................................[
name
]


3 The Authority has not filed a response to referral within the 28 day
period referred to in section 4 of the Fare Infraction Review Referral
Regulation.


4 I hereby apply for the cancellation of the ticket.



NOTE: A certificate of service in Form 6 must be filed with this
Application.


The court address for filing documents is:

Robson Square Provincial Court

#100-800 Hornby St.

Vancouver, BC V6Z 2C5


Dated: ......................................... Signature of Disputant:
........................................



Form 6 (Section 5)

[am. B.C. Reg. 242/2013, s. (c).]

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE



[South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act]



Registry File No. ..............................

Court Location: Vancouver

In the Provincial Court of British Columbia

In the case between:


.....................................................................[
name of person disputing the ticket
]

and
South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority




I certify that I, ..........................................., [
name
] served the attached referral for review and supporting affidavit(s) on
the South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority on
............................ [
date
] by


[
Select whichever of the following is correct.
]


[ ] delivering a copy of those documents to its head office at 400 – 287
Nelson's Court, New Westminster, BC, V3L 0E7, and leaving them with
..................[
name
] who is a receptionist.


[ ] mailing those documents by registered mail to the authority at 400 –
287 Nelson's Court, New Westminster, BC, V3L 0E7, and attached to this
certificate is


[

Select whichever of the following is correct and attach the specified
document.

]


[ ] a copy, produced by fax or otherwise, of the signature obtained by
Canada Post at the time the document was delivered.


[ ] a print-out of the delivery confirmation made available on the
internet by Canada Post. (http://www.canadapost.ca)



NOTE: A copy of the referral for review and supporting affidavit(s)
must be attached to this certificate. In addition, if the referral for
review and affidavit(s) were served by registered mail, a copy of the
proof of service referred to above must be attached to this
certificate.



Dated: .............................. Signature of person who served the
document: .......................................



Form 7 (Section 8)


ORDER



[South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act]



Registry File No. ..............................

Court Location: Vancouver

In the Provincial Court of British Columbia
In the case between:

..................................................................... [
name of person disputing the ticket
]

and
South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority







BEFORE THE HONOURABLE JUDGE

)
.............day, the .............. day


)

of ........................., ....[
yyyy
]....



)





On the application of ...................................[
name
].....................................

[ ] without a hearing

[ ] after a hearing at ................................[
Court location
].............................. on ......[
mmm/dd/yyyy
]......




Persons appearing:

...................................................... Lawyer:
.............................................................




...................................................... Lawyer:
.............................................................





THIS COURT ORDERS that the ticket dated ...............................[
date of ticket
] and numbered .....................[
number of ticket
] that was issued to
.............................................................[
name of person disputing the ticket
] is

[ ] confirmed
[ ] cancelled

Dated: ...................................................... BY THE
COURT: ....................................................



Form 8 (Section 9)

[am. B.C. Reg. 242/2013, s. (c).]

NOTICE OF HEARING



[South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act]



Registry File No. ..............................

Court Location: Vancouver

In the Provincial Court of British Columbia

In the case between:


..................................................................... [
name of person disputing the ticket
]

and
South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority






To:

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority




400 – 287 Nelson's Court, New Westminster, BC, V3L 0E7







To:

Name:
.....................................................................................................................




Address for service:
.......................................................................................................




City: .................................. Province:
.................... Postal Code:
..................................





The dispute raised by the referral for review filed in this proceeding
will be heard at the courthouse at #100-800 Hornby St., Vancouver, BC on
..............................[
date
] at .......................[
time
].


Dated: ................................................



Form 9 (Section 9)


REFERRAL FOR REVIEW



[South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act]






[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

, S.B.C. 1998, c. 30, s. 263.]



