







B.C. Reg. 15/2004

O.C. 18/2004


Deposited January 23, 2004

effective January 31, 2004





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Forest and Range Practices Act; Wildfire Act


Forest Practices Board Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 389/2008, December 9, 2008]




Part 1 — Definitions





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Forest and Range Practices Act

;


"party"
has the same meaning as in




(a)

section 121 of the Act, or




(b)

section 67 of the

Wildfire Act

,

as applicable;


"significant breach"

means




(a)

with respect to




(i)

a party's level of compliance with the requirements of Parts 2 to 5 of
the Act and the regulations and standards made in relation to those
Parts, and




(ii)

a party's level of compliance with the requirements of Parts 1 and 2
of the

Wildfire Act

and the regulations made in relation to those Parts,


a breach of one or more of those requirements that has caused or is
beginning to cause significant harm to persons or the environment, and




(b)

with respect to the appropriateness of government enforcement under




(i)

Part 6 of the Act, and




(ii)

Part 3 of the

Wildfire Act

,


a breach of the government's enforcement duties under those Parts that
has caused or is beginning to cause significant harm to persons or the
environment.

[am. B.C. Reg. 389/2008, s. 1.]



Part 2 — Audits





Audit standards




2


The board may develop standards for the purpose of the periodic
independent audits required under




(a)

section 122 of the Act, and




(b)

section 68 of the

Wildfire Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 389/2008, s. 2.]





Appointment of auditors




3

(1)


In accordance with this section, the board must appoint auditors to
carry out the periodic independent audits.




(2)

The board must not engage or retain an auditor to carry out the
periodic independent audits unless, in the opinion of the board, the
auditor is




(a)

familiar with whichever of the following is relevant to the audits:




(i)

the Act, the regulations and the standards established by the chief
forester under the Act;




(ii)

the

Wildfire Act

and the regulations under that Act;




(iii)

the Acts, regulations and standards in both subparagraphs (i) and
(ii),




(b)

capable of assessing the environmental impact of whichever of the
following is relevant to the audits:




(i)

forest practices;




(ii)

range practices;




(iii)

both forest and range practices,




(c)

capable of performing the audits in accordance with the standards
developed under section 2, and




(d)

independent of the person being audited.




(3)

If an audit is to be carried out




(a)

by a single auditor, that auditor must be a member in good standing of
an accredited professional body approved by the board, or




(b)

by a team of auditors, at least one member of the team must be a
member in good standing of an accredited professional body approved by
the board.

[am. B.C. Reg. 389/2008, s. 3.]





Release of final audit report




4


The board must make a final audit report available




(a)

to any person within 90 days of its submission by the auditor, and




(b)

to the party or person being audited at least 7 clear days before the
report is made available under paragraph (a).




Part 3 — Complaints





Scope of complaints




5

(1)


The matters on which a person may make a complaint to the board under
section 123 of the Act are the following:




(a)

a party's compliance with the requirements of Parts 2 to 5 and 11 of
the Act and the regulations and standards made in relation to those
Parts;




(b)

the appropriateness of government enforcement




(i)

under Part 6 of the Act, or




(ii)

relating to Part 11 of the Act.




(1.1)

The matters on which a person may make a complaint to the board under
section 68 of the

Wildfire Act

are the following:




(a)

a party's compliance with the requirements of Parts 1 and 2 of the

Wildfire Act

and the regulations and standards made in relation to those Parts;




(b)

the appropriateness of government enforcement under Part 3 of the

Wildfire Act

.




(2)

If




(a)

while carrying out an investigation of a party under subsection (1) or
(1.1), the board finds that the party complied with the requirements
investigated, and




(b)

the only reason for that finding is that




(i)

the party exercised due diligence to prevent non-compliance,




(ii)

the party reasonably believed in the existence of facts that if true
would establish that the party complied with the requirement, or




(iii)

the party's actions relevant to the requirement were the result of an
officially induced error,


the board may investigate whether a person other than that party did
not comply with the requirements in the course of acting for or at the
direction of the party.

[am. B.C. Reg. 389/2008, s. 4.]





Notice of complaint




6

(1)


A person who wishes to make a complaint to the board must deliver a
written notice of complaint to the board.




(2)

A notice of complaint must contain




(a)

the name and address of the complainant, and the name of the person,
if any, making the request on the complainant's behalf,




(b)

the address for service of the complainant,




(c)

the grounds for the complaint, and




(d)

a statement describing the relief requested.






Deficient notice of complaint




7


If a notice of complaint does not comply with section 6, the board




(a)

must deliver to the complainant written notice of the deficiencies,
inviting the complainant, within the period specified in the notice,
to submit further material remedying the deficiencies, and




(b)

need not proceed with the complaint until an amended notice of
complaint, with the deficiencies corrected, is delivered to the board.






Procedures following receipt of notice of complaint




8

(1)


The board must acknowledge in writing any notice of complaint, or any
amended notice of complaint with the deficiencies corrected.




(2)

Within 30 days after receipt of the notice of complaint or of the
amended notice of complaint, the board must initiate an investigation
of the complaint unless, in the opinion of the chair, any of the
criteria referred to in section 123 (2) of the Act applies.




(3)

The board may, at any time, consult with a party or a person referred
to in section 5 (2)




(a)

to attempt to settle the complaint, or




(b)

for any other purpose related to a complaint or investigation.






Notice for complaint investigations




9


If the board investigates a complaint, the notification under section
127 of the Act must be in writing and must set out the nature of the
complaint being investigated.




Part 4 — Significant Breaches





Significant breaches




10

(1)


If during an audit or an investigation




(a)

an employee of the board,




(b)

a person retained by the board under section 138 (2) of the Act, or




(c)

a person exercising a delegated power or performing a delegated duty
or function under section 140 of the Act


identifies a probable significant breach, the employee or person must




(d)

contact the person being audited or investigated, and




(e)

conduct audit tests to




(i)

ascertain the extent of the breach, and




(ii)

address any information provided by the person being audited or
investigated.




(2)

If an employee or person referred to in subsection (1) (a) to (c),
after carrying out the requirements of subsection (1), determines that
a significant breach has occurred, the employee or person must
immediately advise




(a)

the board,




(b)

the person being audited, and




(c)

the minister

of the significant breach.



Part 5 — Transition





Code audits and special investigations




11

(1)


The board may carry out periodic independent audits and special
investigations to determine




(a)

a party's compliance with the requirements of Parts 3 to 5 of the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

and the regulations made in relation to those Parts as they were
immediately before their repeal, and




(b)

the appropriateness of government enforcement under Part 6 of the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

as it was immediately before its repeal.




(2)

Part 8 of the Act and this regulation apply to an audit or
investigation under subsection (1).






Complaints from public regarding the Code




12

(1)


The board must deal with complaints from the public respecting




(a)

a party's compliance with the requirements of Parts 2 to 5 of the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

and the regulations made in relation to those Parts as they were
immediately before their repeal, and




(b)

the appropriateness of government enforcement under Part 6 of the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

as it was immediately before its repeal.




(2)

Part 8 of the Act and this regulation apply to an investigation under
subsection (1).



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Forest and Range Practices Act

, S.B.C. 2002, c. 69, sections 121, 122, 123, 141 and 167;

Wildfire Act

, S.B.C. 2004, c. 31, sections 67,68 and 80]



