







B.C. Reg. 216/2011

O.C. 575/2011


Deposited December 2, 2011






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Public Health Act


Health Hazards Regulation

[Last amended July 20, 2020 by B.C. Reg. 186/2020]



Part 1 — Definition





Definition




1


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Public Health Act

.




Part 2 — Health Hazards



Division 1 — Food





Hazardous food




2


The following are prescribed as health hazards:




(a)

milk for human consumption that has not been pasteurized at a licensed
dairy plant in accordance with the

Milk Industry Act

;




(b)

unpasteurized milk or milk products from a farm or dairy where a
person is living and is suffering from or a carrier of




(i)

salmonellosis,




(ii)

campylobacteriosis, or




(iii)

a communicable disease that can be spread by raw milk and must be
reported under the Act;




(c)

pet food meat containing micro-organisms capable of producing disease
in humans.






Prohibitions respecting hazardous food




3

(1)


A person must not remove, or permit to be removed, milk or milk
products described in section 2 (b) from the farm or dairy without the
written consent of a medical health officer, unless the milk or milk
products are to be pasteurized before distribution or use.




(2)

A person must not sell, or offer for sale, pet food described in
section 2 (c).




Division 2 — West Nile Virus





West Nile virus




4

(1)


In this Part:



"pesticide application order"

means an order, made under section 5, to apply pesticides;



"pesticide use authority"

means an authorization under the

Integrated Pest Management Act

for the minister, a health authority or a local government to use
pesticide products for the purpose of controlling mosquito species in
areas of British Columbia where there is a risk to human health from
West Nile virus.




(2)

The following are prescribed as health hazards:




(a)

West Nile virus;




(b)

any agent or condition that transmits, or contributes to the
transmission of, West Nile virus.




(3)

The application of pesticides for the purposes of preventing or
removing a health hazard prescribed under subsection (2) is prescribed
as a preventive measure.






Pesticide application order




5

(1)


The provincial health officer or a medical health officer may order a
local government to apply pesticides to any area within the
jurisdiction of the local government if the provincial health officer
or medical health officer is satisfied that it is necessary to protect
public health through the prevention or removal of a health hazard
prescribed in section 4 (2).




(2)

A person issuing a pesticide application order must




(a)

serve the order on the local government,




(b)

set out in the order




(i)

the time by which the local government must comply, and




(ii)

any conditions of a pesticide use authority with which the local
government must comply, and




(c)

provide the local government a copy of the pesticide use authority.




(3)

A person issuing a pesticide application order may authorize in the
order the application of pesticides to private property, with or
without the consent of the owner or occupant of the property.






Local government compliance




6


A local government that is served with a pesticide application order
must




(a)

comply with the order on or before the date set out in the order,




(b)

comply with any conditions set out in the order, and




(c)

provide to the person who issued the order any information or
assistance required by that person to comply with any conditions of
the pesticide use authority.




Division 3 — General





Inadequate rental accommodation




7

(1)


In this section:


"landlord"
,

"rental unit"

, and
"tenant"
have the same meaning as in the

Residential Tenancy Act

;



"potable water"

has the same meaning as in the

Drinking Water Protection Act

.




(2)

A landlord must not rent a rental unit that is not connected to a
water supply system unless the landlord can provide the tenant with a
supply of potable water for domestic purposes.




(3)

Unless permitted under an enactment, a landlord must not rent a rental
unit that does not have




(a)

at least 11 m
3
of airspace for each tenant, and




(b)

a window that may be opened by tenants of the rental unit.




(4)

A rental unit that does not meet the requirements of this section is
prescribed as a health hazard.






Distance of wells from possible source of contamination




8

(1)


A person who installs a well, or who controls a well installed on or
after July 20, 1917, must ensure that the well is located at least




(a)

30 m from any probable source of contamination,




(b)

6 m from any private dwelling, and




(c)

unless contamination of the well would be impossible because of the
physical conformation, 120 m from any cemetery or dumping ground.




(2)

A person who controls a well installed before July 20, 1917, must




(a)

remove any source of contamination within the distances set out in
subsection (1), or




(b)

subject to subsection (3), decommission the well in accordance with
the Groundwater Protection Regulation.




(3)

Subsection (2) (b) does not apply to a well located within 6 m of a
private dwelling unless it can be shown that the well should be
abandoned for a reason other than proximity to a private dwelling.




(4)

A well that does not meet the requirements of this section is
prescribed as a health hazard.

[am. B.C. Reg. 41/2016, s. 16.]





Non-therapeutic nicotine




9


Nicotine and nicotine salts are prescribed as a health hazard, except
for nicotine or nicotine salts that are




(a)

Schedule I drugs under the Drug Schedules Regulation, or




(b)

expressly excepted as Schedule I drugs under that regulation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 186/2020, App. 2.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Public Health Act

, S.B.C. 2008, c. 28, ss. 111, 114, 123 and 126.]



