







B.C. Reg. 275/2008

M235/2008


Deposited October 15, 2008

effective October 17, 2008





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Health Professions Act


Health Professions General Regulation

[Last amended May 6, 2020 by B.C. Reg. 100/2020]





Definition




1


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Health Professions Act

.




Part 1 — General Provisions





Notice to be given




2


All designated health professions are prescribed for the purposes of
sections 12 (3), 19 (6.2) (a) and (7) (a), 25.03 (3), 50 (3), 50.3 (4)
and 55 (3) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 387/2012; am. B.C. Reg. 219/2017.]





Date bylaws take effect




3


For the purposes of section 19 (3.1) of the Act, the prescribed number
of days is 60 days.






Oath of office




4


The oath of office set out in Schedule 1 is prescribed for the purpose
of section 17.11 of the Act.






Prescribed trade agreements




5


The agreements set out in Schedule 2 are prescribed for the purpose of
section 20.4 (2) (a) (iii) of the Act.






Duty to report respecting hospitalized registrant




6


Each college established under the Act is prescribed for the purposes
of section 32.3 of the Act.






Prescribed periods — disposition of complaints and investigations




7

(1)


For the purposes of section 50.55 (2) of the Act, the prescribed
period for the disposition of a complaint made under section 32 (1) of
the Act or an investigation by the inquiry committee under section 33
(4) of the Act is 120 days from the date the registrar receives the
complaint in writing or the inquiry committee begins the
investigation, as applicable.




(2)

For the purposes of section 50.55 (3) of the Act, the prescribed
period is 60 days from the date written notice is delivered in
accordance with section 50.55 (2) of the Act.




(3)

Despite subsections (1) and (2), the running of the periods referred
to in those subsections are suspended during the period that




(a)

begins on the date this subsection comes into effect, and




(b)

ends on the date on which the provincial health officer provides
notice under section 59 (b) of the

Public Health Act

that the public health emergency related to COVID-19 that is the
subject of the notice provided on March 17, 2020 by the provincial
health officer under section 52 (2) of that Act has passed.

[am. B.C. Reg. 100/2020, Sch. 2, s. 2.]





Refusal of access to register




8


For the purposes of section 22 (2) of the Act, the registrar may
refuse a person access to the register or to any information in the
register if the registrar reasonably believes that




(a)

the access could threaten the safety of a registrant, or




(b)

the person seeking access is doing so for commercial purposes.

[en. B.C. Reg. 418/2008.]





Exception for opioid overdose




9

(1)


This section applies despite




(a)

section 4 (2) of the Medical Practitioners Regulation, and




(b)

any limit or condition imposed under an enactment on the practise
of a profession, occupation or trade by a person or class of persons.




(2)

If a person who is not otherwise authorized to administer naloxone to
another person suspects that another person is suffering from an
overdose of opioids, the person may assess and treat the other person
if treatment is limited to the emergency administration of




(a)

naloxone, by intramuscular injection or intranasally, and




(b)

first aid.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 6/2017, s. (a).]


[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2016, Sch.; am. B.C. Reg. 6/2017, s. (a).]




Part 2 — Emergency Provisions





Definitions




10


In this Part:



"applicable college"

, in relation to an authorized person who is a registrant, means the
college that is responsible for superintending the practice of a
designated health profession by the registrant;



"authorized person"

means a registrant or health professional who is authorized under an
emergency order to perform an activity or to provide a service;



"emergency order"

means an order made under section 13 (1);



"health profession regulation"

means the following:




(a)

a regulation made under the Act that regulates the practice of a
designated health profession;




(b)

a bylaw made, or another instrument issued, by an applicable college
that establishes standards, limits or conditions for the practice of a
designated health profession;



"medical health officer"

means a medical health officer designated under the

Public Health Act

;



"provincial health officer"

means the provincial health officer appointed under the

Public Health Act

;



"public health emergency"

means an emergency that is the subject of a notice provided by the
provincial health officer under section 52 (2) of the

Public Health Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2020, Sch. 2, s. 3.]





Application




11

(1)


This Part applies despite any provision to the contrary in a health
profession regulation.




(2)

Except with respect to a requirement referred to in section 14 (e), an
emergency order applies only during the period that




(a)

begins on the date the order comes into effect, and




(b)

ends on the earliest of the following dates:




(i)

the date stated in the order;




(ii)

the date on which the order is rescinded;




(iii)

the date on which the provincial health officer provides notice under
section 59 (b) of the

Public Health Act

that the public health emergency that is the subject of the order has
passed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2020, Sch. 2, s. 3.]





When emergency order may be made




12

(1)


The provincial health officer may make an emergency order only if the
provincial health officer is of the opinion that




(a)

the order is necessary for the purpose of responding to a public
health emergency




(i)

because the operation of a health profession regulation is adversely
affecting, in one or more areas of British Columbia,




(A)

the timely delivery of treatment or health care services,




(B)

the scope of treatment or health care services that can be delivered,
or




(C)

the efficient and effective use of health human resources,




(ii)

because health human resources in one or more areas of British
Columbia are insufficient to meet the needs of persons affected by a
public health emergency, or




(iii)

for any other reason in the public interest, and




(b)

authorized persons may perform the activities and provide the services
referred to in the order without undue risk to the health or safety of
any person.




(2)

The provincial health officer must not make an emergency order without
first doing all of the following:




(a)

giving notice to the minister of the proposed order;




(b)

making reasonable efforts to consult with all applicable colleges for
the purpose of forming the opinion referred to in subsection (1);




(c)

advising the minister of any objections made by the applicable
colleges and




(i)

how the order addresses those objections, or




(ii)

why those objections cannot be accommodated.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2020, Sch. 2, s. 3.]





Emergency orders




13

(1)


If the conditions of section 12 are met, the provincial health officer
may make an order to do one or more of the following:




(a)

authorize, but not require, a registrant to perform a specified
activity or provide a specified service that the registrant would not
otherwise be permitted to perform or provide under a health profession
regulation;




(b)

modify or waive a requirement, standard, limit or condition set under
a health profession regulation and authorize, but not require, a
registrant to perform a specified activity or provide a specified
service in accordance with the modification or waiver;




(c)

subject to subsection (2), authorize, but not require, a health
professional who is not a registrant to perform a specified activity
or to provide a specified service that, under a health profession
regulation, may be performed or provided only by a registrant.




(2)

A health professional may perform an activity or provide a service
under an emergency order referred to in subsection (1) (c) only under
the direct supervision of a registrant who is authorized, under a
health profession regulation, to perform the activity or provide the
service.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2020, Sch. 2, s. 3.]





Additional powers for purposes of emergency order




14


The provincial health officer may, for the purposes of an emergency
order, do one or more of the following:




(a)

make the order in respect of a specified person or a class of persons;




(b)

set limits or conditions on an authorization made under the order,
including limits or conditions with respect to




(i)

the training, experience and qualifications of authorized persons,




(ii)

the circumstances in which authorized persons may perform an activity
or provide a service, and




(iii)

the supervision of authorized persons;




(c)

set different limits and conditions for different classes of
authorized persons or circumstances, including with reference to




(i)

the employer or types of employers of authorized persons, and




(ii)

the types of places in which an activity may be performed or a service
may be provided;




(d)

restrict the application of the order to




(i)

one or more geographic areas, or




(ii)

a period of time, including until the happening of a specified event;




(e)

require authorized persons to keep records or make reports in respect
of matters relevant to the order and, for this purpose,




(i)

authorize, but not require, another person or a person within a class
of persons to keep the record or make the report on behalf of the
authorized person, and




(ii)

provide records or make reports to the provincial health officer, a
medical health officer, the minister or an applicable college.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2020, Sch. 2, s. 3.]





Conferring discretion under emergency order




15

(1)


The provincial health officer may, in an emergency order, confer a
discretion on a medical health officer, an applicable college, an
employer, or the board of management or administrator of a hospital
within the meaning of Part 1 of the

Hospital Act

, to determine whether an authorized person is competent to perform an
activity or provide a service only if the provincial health officer
sets limits or conditions under




(a)

section 14 (b) (i) to ensure, to the extent practicable, that
activities are performed or services provided only by persons who are
reasonably competent to do so, or




(b)

section 14 (b) (iii) to require direct supervision of the authorized
person by a registrant who is authorized, under a health profession
regulation, to perform the activity or provide the service.




(2)

The provincial health officer may, in an emergency order, authorize an
authorized person to self-assess whether the authorized person is
competent to perform an activity or provide a service only if the
provincial health officer sets limits or conditions as described in
subsection (1).

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2020, Sch. 2, s. 3.]





Making emergency orders




16


The provincial health officer must, as soon as practicable after
making an emergency order,




(a)

publish the order on a website maintained by or on behalf of the
provincial health officer, and




(b)

give a copy of the order to the minister and the registrar of each
applicable college.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2020, Sch. 2, s. 3.]





Minister retains discretion over health professions




17


The provincial health officer must comply with any direction of the
minister with respect to the following:




(a)

not making a proposed emergency order;




(b)

making changes to a proposed emergency order;




(c)

rescinding or modifying an emergency order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2020, Sch. 2, s. 3.]





Limits on acting as authorized persons




18

(1)


Nothing in an emergency order authorizes a registrant to act contrary
to a limit or condition imposed by an applicable college on the
registrant's registration with respect to the practice of a designated
health profession by that registrant.




(2)

A person must not perform an activity or provide a service under an
emergency order if either of the following circumstances apply:




(a)

the person is a registrant whose registration is suspended under
section 33 (2) or 39 (2) of the Act;




(b)

the person is authorized to practise a health profession in another
province or a foreign jurisdiction but that authorization is suspended
for a reason similar to a reason for which a registrant's registration
could be suspended under section 33 (2) or 39 (2) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2020, Sch. 2, s. 3.]



Schedule 1


Oath of Office

I do swear or solemnly affirm that:

• I will abide by the
Health Professions Act
and I will faithfully discharge the duties of the position, according to
the best of my ability;


• I will act in accordance with the law and the public trust placed
in me;


• I will act in the interests of the College as a whole;


• I will uphold the objects of the College and ensure that I am
guided by the public interest in the performance of my duties;

• I have a duty to act honestly;

• I will declare any private interests relating to my public duties
and take steps to resolve any conflicts arising in a way that protects
the public interest;


• I will ensure that other memberships, directorships, voluntary or
paid positions or affiliations remain distinct from work undertaken in
the course of performing my duty as a board member;


So help me God.
[omit this phrase in an affirmation]





_______________________________________

Witness


_______________________________________

Signature of Board Member









_______________________________________

Date






Schedule 2

[am. B.C. Reg. 212/2010.]

Prescribed Trade Agreements





Item


Agreement



1
Agreement on Internal Trade


2

British Columbia-Alberta Trade, Investment and Labour Mobility
Agreement



3
New West Partnership Agreement




[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Health Professions Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, ss. 12 (2) and 55 (2)]



