







B.C. Reg. 8/99

O.C. 35/99


Deposited January 15, 1999






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Wildlife Act


Hunting Licensing Regulation

[Last amended January 30, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 16/2023]





Definitions




1

(1)


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Wildlife Act

;



"hunting companion"

means a person who is hunting for the limited purposes of assisting a
person who holds a permit under section 2 (aa) or (bb) of the Permit
Regulation;



"licence year"

means the period commencing April 1 in a calendar year and ending
March 31 of the following calendar year;



"Permit Regulation"

means the Permit Regulation, B.C. Reg. 253/2000;



"supervising hunter"

means a person who accompanies and provides close personal supervision
of another person under section 11 (5), 17.1 or 17.2 of the Act;



"unexamined non-resident or non-resident alien"

means a non-resident or non-resident alien who




(a)

has not successfully completed the examinations referred to in section
17 (1) of the Act, and




(b)

is not described in section 110.3 of the Act;



"youth hunting licence"

means a hunting licence issued to a parent or guardian on behalf of a
child or ward in accordance with section 17.1 (2) of the Act.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 166/2001, s. 2.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 435/2000, s. 1; 23/2001, s. 2; 84/2001, s. 1;
166/2001, s. 2; 38/2013, App. 1, s. 1; 266/2014, Sch. 3, s. 1;
78/2016, App. 1, s. 1; 127/2017, App. 4, s. 1 and App. 10, s. 1;
79/2018, App. 2, s. 1.]




Part 1 — Licences





Repealed




2-4


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 340/2005, s. 5.]






Condition of a hunting licence — unexamined non-residents and
non-resident aliens




4.1


It is a condition of every hunting licence that the holder must not
hunt wildlife unless accompanied by a person described in section 17
(2) (a), (b) or (c) of the Act if the holder was, at the time the
licence was issued, an unexamined non-resident or non-resident alien.


[en. B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 10, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 79/2018, App. 2,
s. 2.]






Other licences required




5

(1)


For the purposes of section 11 (1) (c) of the Act, a person who hunts
any of the following species must hold an uncancelled species licence
for that species:




(a)

bison;




(b)

black bear;




(c)

black-tailed deer;




(d)

bobcat;




(e)

caribou;




(f)

cougar;




(g)

elk;




(h)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 52/2018, Sch. 2, s. 1.]




(i)

lynx;




(j)

moose;




(k)

mountain goat;




(l)

mountain sheep;




(m)

mule deer;




(n)

white-tailed deer;




(o)

wolverine.




(2)

For the purposes of section 11 (1) (c) of the Act, a non-resident or
non-resident alien who hunts wolf must hold an uncancelled species
licence for wolf.




(3)

For the purposes of section 11 (1) (c) of the Act, a non-resident or
non-resident alien who hunts upland game birds must hold an upland
game bird licence.


[en. B.C. Reg. 74/2017, App. 4, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 127/2017, App. 4,
s. 3; 52/2018, Sch. 2, s. 1; 79/2018, App. 2, s. 2.]






Exemptions — hunting companion for disabled hunter permit holder




5.1

(1)


Section 5 (1) does not apply to a hunting companion.




(2)

Section 7 does not apply to a hunting companion who is assisting a
person




(a)

who holds a permit under section 2 (aa) of the Permit Regulation, if,
after the hunting companion kills the big game and before the permit
holder or hunting companion handles the big game killed, the permit
holder cancels the appropriate species licence, or




(b)

who holds a permit under section 2 (bb) of the Permit Regulation, if,
after the hunting companion kills the big game and before the hunting
companion handles the big game killed, the hunting companion cancels
the appropriate species licence of the permit holder on behalf of the
permit holder.


[en. B.C. Reg. 266/2014, Sch. 3, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 74/2017, App. 4,
s. 2.]






Condition of hunting licence of hunting companion




5.11


It is a condition of the hunting licence of a hunting companion
assisting a person who holds a permit under section 2 (bb) of the
Permit Regulation that the hunting companion may be named for those
purposes on the permit of only one permit holder each licence year.

[en. B.C. Reg. 266/2014, Sch. 3, s. 3.]





Exemptions — former section 5.1




5.12

(1)


Section 5 (1) does not apply to a person if the person is hunting only
for the limited purposes of assisting a disabled hunter who,
immediately before April 1, 2015, held a permit under section 3 (1)
(c) (i) or (2) of the Permit Regulation, to track, kill or retrieve a
game animal wounded by the disabled hunter.




(2)

Section 7 does not apply to a person exempted under subsection (1) if,
after the person kills big game and before the disabled hunter or the
person handles the big game killed, the disabled hunter cancels the
appropriate species licence in accordance with the instructions on the
licence.




(3)

The exemptions in subsections (1) and (2) apply only while the permit
referred to in subsection (1) is valid.


[en. B.C. Reg. 266/2014, Sch. 3, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 74/2017, App. 4,
s. 3.]






Exemptions — youth hunting licence




5.2

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 74/2017, App. 4, s. 4.]




(2)

Section 5 (1) does not apply to a person in respect of a species if




(a)

a youth hunting licence is held on the person's behalf, and




(b)

the person is hunting with a supervising hunter who holds an
uncancelled species licence for the species.




(2.1)

Section 5 (2) does not apply to a person if




(a)

a youth hunting licence is held on the person's behalf, and




(b)

the person is hunting with a supervising hunter who




(i)

is a resident, or




(ii)

holds an uncancelled species licence for wolf.




(2.2)

Section 5 (3) does not apply to a person if




(a)

a youth hunting licence is held on the person's behalf, and




(b)

the person is hunting with a supervising hunter who




(i)

is a resident, or




(ii)

holds an upland game bird licence.




(3)

Section 7 does not apply to a person exempted under subsection (2) of
this section, if, after the person kills big game and before any
person handles the big game killed, the supervising hunter cancels the
appropriate species licence in accordance with the instructions on the
licence.




(3.1)

Section 7 does not apply to a person exempted under subsection (2.1)
of this section if




(a)

the supervising hunter is a resident, or




(b)

after the person kills a wolf and before any person handles the wolf
killed, the supervising hunter cancels a species licence for wolf in
accordance with the instructions on the licence.


[en. B.C. Reg. 38/2013, App. 1, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 74/2017, App. 4,
ss. 3 and 4; 127/2017, App. 4, s. 4.]






Exemptions — initiation hunting licence




5.3

(1)


Section 5 (1) does not apply to a person if the person holds an
initiation hunting licence and the person is hunting with a
supervising hunter who holds an uncancelled species licence for the
species hunted.




(2)

Section 7 does not apply to a person exempted under subsection (1) of
this section, if, after the person kills big game and before any
person handles the big game killed, the supervising hunter cancels the
appropriate species licence in accordance with the instructions on the
licence.


[en. B.C. Reg. 38/2013, App. 1, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 74/2017, App. 4,
s. 3.]






Exemptions — wounded dangerous wildlife




5.31

(1)


Section 5 (1) and (2) does not apply to a supervising hunter if




(a)

the supervising hunter is hunting with a person who holds an
uncancelled species licence for black bear, cougar or wolf,




(b)

the person is less than 18 years of age, and




(c)

the person wounds wildlife for which the species licence is issued.




(2)

Section 5 (1) does not apply to a resident who holds a permit issued
under section 70 (1) (a) of the Act if




(a)

the resident is hunting with a non-resident or non-resident alien in
respect of whom the permit is issued,




(b)

the non-resident or non-resident alien holds an uncancelled species
licence for black bear or cougar, and




(c)

the non-resident or non-resident alien wounds wildlife for which the
species licence is issued.




(3)

Section 5 (1) and (2) does not apply to a guide outfitter or assistant
guide who holds a hunting licence if




(a)

the guide outfitter or assistant guide is hunting with, and guiding, a
person who holds an uncancelled species licence for black bear, cougar
or wolf, and




(b)

the person wounds wildlife for which the species licence is issued.




(4)

Section 7 does not apply to a person exempted under subsection (1),
(2) or (3) of this section if, after the person kills the wounded
wildlife and before any person handles that wildlife, the person who
holds the appropriate species licence cancels the species licence in
accordance with the instructions on that licence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 203/2022, App. 1.]





Eligibility for species licence




5.4

(1)


To be eligible for a species licence, a person must




(a)

hold a hunting licence, other than an initiation hunting licence or a
youth hunting licence, and




(b)

if the person is a non-resident or non-resident alien, demonstrate
that the person is to be accompanied by




(i)

a guide outfitter,




(ii)

an assistant guide issued a written authorization under section 48
(1.2) of the Act, or




(iii)

another person who holds a permit issued under section 70 (1) (a) of
the Act that authorizes the other person to accompany the person who
is the non-resident or non-resident alien.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a person described in section 11 (9)
of the Act who intends to serve as a supervising hunter.


[en. B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 4, s. 5; am. B.C. Reg. 79/2018, App. 2,
s. 2.]






Eligibility for upland game bird licence




5.41

(1)


To be eligible for an upland game bird licence, a person must hold a
hunting licence, other than a youth hunting licence.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a person described in section 11 (9)
of the Act who intends to serve as a supervising hunter for a person
on whose behalf a youth hunting licence is held.

[en. B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 4, s. 5.]





Species licence not valid until 2 days after the date of issue




6


A species licence for bobcat, caribou, cougar, lynx, mountain goat,
mountain sheep or wolverine is not valid until 2 days after the date
of issue.


[en. B.C. Reg. 138/2002, s. (a); am. B.C. Reg. 52/2018, Sch. 2, s. 2.]






Licence must be cancelled




7

(1)


If a person hunts and kills wildlife in respect of which the person is
required to hold a species licence, the person commits an offence
unless, immediately after killing the wildlife and before handling the
wildlife killed, the person cancels the species licence in accordance
with the instructions on that licence.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 84/2001, s. 2.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 84/2001, s. 2; 74/2017, App. 4, s. 5.]






Condition of hunting licence — carry all species licences




7.1


It is a condition of every hunting licence that the holder must not
hunt wildlife unless the holder




(a)

carries, while hunting, each species licence issued to the holder
during the term of the holder's hunting licence, whether or not any
species licence has been cancelled, and




(b)

produces, on the request of an officer, all species licences referred
to in paragraph (a).

[en. B.C. Reg. 57/2018, Sch. 1.]





Issuing hunting licences to persons under 18 years of age




8


A person commits an offence if the person issues a hunting licence to,
or on behalf of, a person who is under 18 years of age contrary to
section 17.1 (1) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 4, s. 6.]





Repealed




9-13


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 4, s. 7.]






Repealed




14


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 78/2016, App. 1, s. 5.]






Repealed




14.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 4, s. 7.]






Prescribed qualifications — supervising an underage hunter




14.2


For the purposes of sections 11 (5) (c) and 17.1 (1) (c), (3) (d) and
(g) and (4) (e) of the Act, the following qualifications are
prescribed:




(a)-(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 4, s. 8 (a).]




(b.1)

the person has successfully completed the examinations referred to in
section 17 (1) of the Act or is described in section 110.3 of the Act;




(c)

the person must have held a hunting licence, other than an initiation
hunting licence or a youth hunting licence, in British Columbia, or a
licence to hunt in another jurisdiction, in not fewer than 3 of any of
the licence years preceding the current licence year;




(d)

if the person is described in section 11 (9) of the Act, paragraphs
(b.1) and (c) do not apply and the person must have




(i)

received training in hunting, and




(ii)

previously hunted lawfully without supervision;




(e)

the person must not be prohibited from carrying or possessing a
firearm under section 24 of the Act or an enactment of Canada, a
province or territory of Canada, the United States of America, a state
of the United States of America or another jurisdiction.


[en. B.C. Reg. 38/2013, App. 1, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 4,
s. 8.]






Prescribed qualifications — supervising an initiation hunter




14.3

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the following qualifications are prescribed
for the purposes of section 17.2 (2) (b) and (3) (b) and (d) of the
Act:




(a)

the person must be a resident;




(b)

the person must hold a hunting licence, other than an initiation
hunting licence or a youth hunting licence;




(c)

the person must have held a hunting licence, other than an initiation
hunting licence or a youth hunting licence, in British Columbia, or a
licence to hunt in another jurisdiction, in not fewer than 3 of any of
the licence years preceding the current licence year;




(d)

if the person is described in section 11 (9) of the Act, paragraphs
(a) to (c) do not apply and the person must have




(i)

received training in hunting, and




(ii)

previously hunted lawfully without supervision;




(e)

the person must not be prohibited from carrying or possessing a
firearm under section 24 of the Act or an enactment of Canada or a
province or territory of Canada, the United States of America, a state
of the United States of America or another jurisdiction.




(2)

If the person who holds an initiation hunting licence or a youth
hunting licence referred to in section 17.2 (2) and (3) of the Act,
while hunting wildlife, is accompanied by a guide outfitter, or an
assistant guide issued a written authorization under section 48 (1.2)
of the Act, who is guiding the person, the following qualifications
are prescribed for the purposes of section 17.2 (2) (b) and (3) (b)
and (d) of the Act:




(a)

the supervising hunter must be a resident;




(b)

the supervising hunter must hold a hunting licence, other than an
initiation hunting licence or a youth hunting licence, or be exempted
from holding a hunting licence.


[en. B.C. Reg. 38/2013, App. 1, s. 7; am. B.C. Regs. 127/2017, App. 4,
s. 9; 64/2021, s. 4.]






Maximum number of persons




14.4


For the purposes of sections 11 (5), 17.1 and 17.2 of the Act, a
supervising hunter commits an offence if the supervising hunter
accompanies and supervises, at the same time, more than a total of 2
of any of the following persons:




(a)

a person who holds an initiation hunting licence;




(b)

a person on whose behalf a youth hunting licence is held.




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 16/2023, App. 1, s. 1.]


[en. B.C. Reg. 38/2013, App. 1, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 16/2023, App. 1,
s. 1.]






Condition of an initiation hunting licence




14.5


It is a condition of every initiation hunting licence that the holder
of the licence must do all of the following:




(a)

before starting to hunt on each day of hunting,




(i)

record in ink, on a form specified by the director, the name of the
supervising hunter for that day, and




(ii)

ensure that that supervising hunter has




(A)

read the information set out on the form, and




(B)

signed the form;




(b)

carry the form while hunting and produce it to an officer on request.

[en. B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 4, s. 10.]





Number of initiation hunting licences limited to one




14.6


For the purposes of section 14 of the Act, a person must not obtain or
hold more than one initiation hunting licence in the person's
lifetime.


[en. B.C. Reg. 38/2013, App. 1, s. 7; am. B.C. Regs. 127/2017, App. 4,
s. 11; 64/2021, s. 3.]






Number of licences limited to one




15


For the purpose of section 14 of the Act, during a licence year, a
person must not obtain or hold more than one of each of the following
licences:




(a)

a hunting licence, other than a hunting licence described in paragraph
(a.1), (a.2) or (a.3);




(a.1)

a youth hunting licence issued to the person in respect of a
particular person under 18 years of age;




(a.2)

an initiation hunting licence;




(a.3)

a hunting licence issued to the person when the person was an
unexamined non-resident or non-resident alien;




(b)

a bison species licence;




(c)

a caribou species licence;




(d)

an elk species licence;




(e)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 52/2018, Sch. 2, s. 1.]




(f)

a lynx species licence;




(g)

a moose species licence;




(h)

a mountain goat species licence;




(i)

a mountain sheep species licence;




(j)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 4, s. 12 (b).]




(k)

a wolverine species licence;




(l)

an upland game bird licence.


[en. B.C. Reg. 84/2001, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 65/2007, s. 2 (a);
167/2007, s. (a); 38/2013, App. 1, s. 8; 127/2017, App. 4, ss. 11 and
12 and App. 10, s. 3; 52/2018, Sch. 2, s. 1; 79/2018, App. 2, s. 2;
64/2021, s. 2.]






Number of licences limited variously




16

(1)


For the purpose of section 14 of the Act, the maximum number of
licences of each kind that a person may obtain or hold, during each
licence year, is as follows:




(a)

2 black bear species licences;




(b)

5 bobcat species licences;




(c)

2 cougar species licences;




(d)

3 mule deer species licences;




(e)

15 Haida Gwaii deer species licences;




(f)

10 wolf species licences;




(g)

3 white-tailed deer species licences.




(h)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 167/2007, s. (b).]




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 138/2002, s. (b).]


[en. B.C. Reg. 84/2001, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 138/2002, s. (b);
267/2003, s. (a); 65/2007, s. 2 (b); 167/2007, s. (b); 74/2017, App.
4, s. 6; 127/2017, App. 4, ss. 11 and 13.]






Number of licences limited to 15




17


If a person, during a licence year, obtains or holds more than 15 of
any combination of




(a)

mule deer species licences,




(b)

Haida Gwaii deer species licences, and




(c)

white-tailed deer species licences


the person commits an offence.


[en. B.C. Reg. 84/2001, s. 5; am. B.C. Regs. 267/2003, s. (b);
74/2017, App. 4, s. 6; 127/2017, App. 4, s. 14; 64/2021, s. 2.]






Repealed




18


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 78/2016, App. 1, s. 5.]






Lost licence




18.1


A duplicate copy of a species licence may be issued if the holder of
the licence




(a)

completes a statement of loss in the form specified by the director,
and




(b)

pays the fee set out in the Schedule.


[en. B.C. Reg. 35/2004, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 4, s. 15
and App. 10, s. 4.]






Fee schedule




19


The fees and habitat conservation trust fund surcharges payable for a
licence set out in the Schedule are those set out opposite the licence
in the Schedule.


[am. B.C. Regs. 340/2005, s. 6; 74/2017, App. 4, s. 7.]






Licence issuing prohibition




20


It is an offence to issue oneself a licence listed in the Schedule.

[en. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 1.]





Initiation hunting licence — bag limit




20.1


Any wildlife taken or killed by a person who holds an initiation
hunting licence is included in the bag limit of the supervising
hunter.

[en. B.C. Reg. 38/2013, App. 1, s. 9.]





Youth hunting licence — bag limit




21


Any wildlife, other than migratory game birds, taken or killed by a
person on whose behalf a youth hunting licence is held is included in
the bag limit of the supervising hunter.


[en. B.C. Reg. 38/2013, App. 1, s. 10; am. B.C. Reg. 16/2023, App. 1,
s. 2.]






Hunting companion for disabled hunter — bag limit




21.1

(1)


Any wildlife taken or killed by a person referred to in section 5.1 on
behalf of a person who holds a permit referred to in that section is
included in the bag limit of the permit holder.




(2)

Any wildlife taken or killed by a person referred to in section 5.12
on behalf of a person who holds a permit referred to in that section
is included in the bag limit of the permit holder.


[en. B.C. Reg. 266/2014, Sch. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 266/2014, Sch. 3, s.
4.]






Repealed




22


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 38/2013, App. 1, s. 10.]






Exemptions — guided youth




23

(1)


If a person under the age of 18 years, while hunting wildlife, is
accompanied by a guide outfitter or assistant guide who is guiding the
person, section 11 (5) (c) of the Act does not apply.




(2)

If a person on whose behalf a youth hunting licence is held, while
hunting wildlife, is accompanied by a guide outfitter or assistant
guide who is guiding the person




(a)

section 17.1 (1) (c), (3) (d) and (g) and (4) (e) of the Act does not
apply to the supervising hunter,




(b)

section 56 (1) of the Act does not apply to the guide outfitter or
assistant guide in respect of the requirement under that section that
the hunter hold a hunting licence, and




(c)

section 21 of this regulation does not apply to any small game taken
or killed by the person and the person may kill and possess small game
as if the person held a hunting licence.


[en. B.C. Reg. 38/2013, App. 1, s. 10; am. B.C. Regs. 52/2018, Sch. 2,
s. 3; 159/2018, Sch. 1; 64/2021, ss. 2 and 4.]






Repealed




23.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 16/2023, App. 1, s. 3.]




Part 2 — Fraser Valley Special Hunting Area





Definitions




24


In this Part:



"special area"

means the Fraser Valley special hunting area comprised of MU 2-4 and
those areas within MU 2-8 that are within the corporate limits of The
Corporation of The District of Maple Ridge, The Corporation of The
District of Pitt Meadows, The District of Mission, and The Corporation
of the City of Coquitlam.






Two licences required




25


For the purposes of section 11 (1) (c) of the Act, a person who hunts
wildlife in the special area must hold a Fraser Valley special area
licence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 74/2017, App. 4, s. 8.]





Exemption




26


Section 25 does not apply




(a)

if the person hunts wildlife on property owned by a commercial game
club which holds a permit for that purpose under the Act, or




(b)

to a person under the age of 18 years.


[am. B.C. Regs. 159/2008, s. 1; 74/2017, App. 4, s. 9.]






Insurance required




27


A person other than to whom section 26 applies commits an offence if
the person hunts wildlife in the special area unless the person is the
holder of public liability and property damage insurance in the amount
of $1 000 000 or more, sold by a licensed insurer in the Province,
that covers the hunter while hunting in the Province.

[am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 2.]





No licence issued without insurance




28

(1)


An application for a Fraser Valley special area licence must include a
declaration, in the form specified by the director, by the applicant
that the applicant holds the insurance required by section 27.




(2)

A person commits an offence if the person issues a Fraser Valley
special area licence to an applicant whose application does not
conform to subsection (1).


[en. B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 4, s. 17; am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 2.]




Part 3 — Gulf Islands Special Hunting Area





Definitions




29


In this Part:



"special area"

means the Gulf Islands special hunting area comprised of Denman and
Hornby Islands and all islands within MU 1-1 except Vancouver Island.

[am. B.C. Reg. 167/2005.]





Two licences required




30


For the purposes of section 11 (1) (c) of the Act, a person who hunts
wildlife in the special area must hold a Gulf Islands special area
licence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 74/2017, App. 4, s. 11.]





Insurance or guide required and exemption




31

(1)


A person commits an offence if the person hunts wildlife in the
special area unless the person




(a)

is the holder of public liability and property damage insurance in the
amount of $100 000 or more, sold by a licensed insurer in the
Province, that covers the hunter while hunting in the Province, or




(b)

is guided by a guide outfitter or assistant guide.




(2)

Section 30 and subsection (1) do not apply to a person under the age
of 18 years.


[am. B.C. Regs. 159/2008, s. 1; 74/2017, App. 4, s. 12; 1/2019, Sch.
2; 64/2021, s. 2.]






No licence issued without insurance




32

(1)


An application for a Gulf Islands special area licence must include a
declaration, in the form specified by the director, by the applicant
that the applicant




(a)

holds the insurance required by section 31, or




(b)

is to be accompanied, while hunting in the special area, by




(i)

a guide outfitter, or




(ii)

an assistant guide issued a written authorization under section 48
(1.2) of the Act.




(2)

A person commits an offence if the person issues a Gulf Islands
special area licence to an applicant whose application does not
conform to subsection (1).


[en. B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 4, s. 18; am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 2.]




Schedule


[en. B.C. Reg. 28/2003, s. (a); am. B.C. Regs. 86/2003; 28/2003, ss. (b)
to (d); 35/2004, ss. 3 to 6; 140/2004; 39/2005; 340/2005, s. 8; 38/2013,
App. 1, s. 12; 68/2016, s. (c); 78/2016, App. 1, s. 6; 74/2017, App. 4,
s. 13; 127/2017, App. 4, s. 19 and App. 10, s. 5; 52/2018, Sch. 2, s. 4;
79/2018, App. 2, s. 3.]








Licence


Fee


Surcharge










$


$





1

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 340/2005, s. 8 (a).]



2
For a hunting licence issued to



(a) a resident to hunt wildlife
25.00
7.00




(b) a resident, who is 65 years of age or older, to hunt wildlife

6.00
1.00




(c) a non-resident to hunt wildlife

53.00
22.00




(d) a non-resident alien to hunt wildlife

126.00
54.00




(e) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 4, s. 19 (b).]





(f) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 38/2013, App. 1, s. 12 (a).]







(g) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 4, s. 19 (b).]



2.1
For an initiation hunting licence
15.00
4.00


2.2
For a youth hunting licence
6.00
1.00


2.3

For a Fraser Valley special area licence

8.00
2.00


2.4

For a Gulf Islands special area licence

2.00
—


2.5
For an upland game bird licence
35.00
15.00


3

For a species licence issued to a resident to hunt




(a) black bear
16.00
4.00



(b) caribou
16.00
4.00



(c) cougar
24.00
6.00




(d) mule deer, including black-tailed deer

12.00
3.00



(e) elk
20.00
5.00




(f) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 52/2018, Sch. 2, s. 4.]






(g) moose
20.00
5.00



(h) mountain goat
32.00
8.00



(i) mountain sheep
48.00
12.00



(j) white-tailed deer
12.00
3.00



(k) Haida Gwaii deer
8.00
2.00



(l) bobcat
7.00
1.00



(m) bison
56.00
14.00



(n) lynx
7.00
1.00



(o) wolverine
7.00
1.00


4

For a species licence issued to a non-resident or non-resident
alien to hunt




(a) black bear
126.00
54.00



(b) caribou
161.00
69.00



(c) cougar
161.00
69.00




(d) mule deer, including black-tailed deer

88.00
37.00



(e) elk
175.00
75.00




(f) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 52/2018, Sch. 2, s. 4.]






(g) moose
175.00
75.00



(h) mountain goat
245.00
105.00



(i) mountain sheep
434.00
186.00



(j) wolf
35.00
15.00



(k) white-tailed deer
88.00
37.00



(l) Haida Gwaii deer
18.00
7.00




(m) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 4, s. 19 (d).]




(n) bobcat
28.00
12.00



(o) bison
490.00
210.00



(p) lynx
28.00
12.00



(q) wolverine
28.00
12.00


5

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 78/2016, App. 1, s. 6.]



6

For a duplicate copy of a species licence

10.00
—




[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Wildlife Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 488, s. 108.]



