







B.C. Reg. 276/84


Assessment Commissioner

1




Deposited August 30, 1984






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Assessment Act


Land Values for Farm Land Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 290/2006, November 1, 2006]






1


The attached land value schedules must be used for determination of
value for the purposes of assessment for the 1999 and subsequent
taxation years.

[en. B.C. Reg. 391/98.]



Schedules


[am. B.C. Regs. 389/88; 228/91; 364/92; 506/92; 298/93, ss. 2 and 3;
454/94; 469/94;

407/95; 381/96; 323/97; 391/98; 486/2003; 290/2006.]






1


In these schedules,




(a)

where the land use indicated is "orchards-vineyards", land is rated by
number according to the productivity of the soil type for tree fruits,
on a scale of 0-100 with 100 being the highest degree of productivity,




(a.1)

where the land use indicated is "aquaculture", land is rated by number
according to the production potential of the site for aquaculture, on
a scale of 10-50 with 50 being the highest degree of productivity,




(b)

where the land use is other than "orchards-vineyards" or
"aquaculture", land is rated according to a number appearing in a
"land capability" or "soil capability" column, and the numbers 1 to 7
in either of those columns refer respectively to soil capability
classes 1 to 7 of the "Soil Capability Classification for Agriculture"
contained in The Land Inventory Report No. 2-1965 published by the
Department of Forestry, Canada; which soil capability classes may be
summarized as follows:



Class 1 — Soils with no significant limitations in use for crops;


Class 2 — Soils with moderate limitations that restrict the range of
crops or require moderate conservation practices;


Class 3 — Soils with moderately severe limitations that restrict the
range of crops or require special conservation practices;


Class 4 — Soils with severe limitations that restrict the range of
crops or require special conservation practices or both;


Class 5 — Soils with very severe limitations that restrict their
capability to producing perennial forage crops, and improvement
practices are feasible;


Class 6 — Soils capable only of producing perennial forage crops, and
improvement practices are not feasible;


Class 7 — Soils with no capability for arable culture or permanent
pasture,


and the numbers 8 and 0 refer respectively to land comprising the
farmstead curtilage; and




(c)

the "rate code" or "rating" column is for office use only.



Schedules 1-1 to 27-1 were enacted by B.C. Reg. 486/2003 but are not
included in this consolidation. They are published in the
British Columbia Gazette, Part II
, Volume 46, Number 26, pages 781 to 921.





1.


2007-13-15 changed enacting authority to BC Assessment Authority.





Note:
see also section 10 of B.C. Reg. 799/74 — Assessment Act Regulations


[Provisions of the

Assessment Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 20, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 23 (7)]



