







B.C. Reg. 134/93

O.C. 415/93


Deposited April 13, 1993






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Wildlife Act


Limited Entry Hunting Regulation

[Last amended April 25, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 112/2023]



Part 1 — General





Definitions and interpretation




1

(1)


In this regulation:



"2 point buck"

means a male deer having an antler composed of a main beam from which
no more than 2 tines, each of which is at least 2.5 cm in length not
including the brow tine or basal burr, project beyond the lower third
of the main beam;



"3 point buck"

means a male deer having an antler composed of a main beam from which
no more than 3 tines, each of which is at least 2.5 cm in length not
including the brow tine or basal burr, project beyond the lower third
of the main beam;



"3 point bull elk"

means an elk having an antler composed of a main beam from which 3 or
more tines project, each of which is at least 2.5 cm in length;



"3 point bull moose"

means a moose having 2 antlers from each of which 3 or more tines
project, each of which is more than 2.5 cm in length;



"4 point buck"

means a male deer having an antler composed of a main beam from which
4 or more tines, not including the brow tine, project, each of which
is at least 2.5 cm in length;



"5 point bull caribou"

means a caribou having an antler which bears at least 5 tines,
including the tip of the main beam above the rear point, each of which
is at least 2.5 cm in length;



"5 point bull elk"

means an elk having an antler composed of a main beam from which 5 or
more tines project, each of which is more than 2.5 cm long;



"6 point bull elk"

means an elk having an antler composed of a main beam from which 6 or
more tines project, each of which is greater than 2.5 cm in length;


"Act"
means the

Wildlife Act

;



"adult mountain goat"

means a mountain goat with horns that are 100 mm or greater in length;



"adult mountain sheep"

means a mountain sheep one year of age or older;



"antlerless animal"

means a member of the deer family bearing no visible bony antlers, and
for the purposes of this definition the small skin or hair covered
protuberances on male fawns and calves are not antlers;


"buck"
or
"bull"
means




(a)

with reference to caribou, a male bearing visible bony antlers,




(b)

with reference to deer, one bearing visible bony antlers, and




(c)

with reference to elk or moose, one bearing visible bony antlers, but
does not include a calf;


"calf"
with reference to a moose, elk or caribou means one that is less than
12 months of age;


"cow"
with reference to an elk or moose means a female that is one year of
age or older;



"cow caribou"

means any female caribou or a caribou with no antlers or antlers with
less than a 60 cm main beam length;



"ewe or juvenile mountain sheep"

means a female mountain sheep of any age or a male mountain sheep 2
years of age or younger;



"full curl bighorn ram mountain sheep"

means any male bighorn mountain sheep




(a)

the head of which, when viewed squarely from the side, has at least
one horn tip extending upwards beyond a straight line drawn through
the centre of the nostril and the lowest hindmost portion of the horn
base, or




(b)

the skull and horns of which are presented for examination, and which,
when viewed squarely from the side with both horns in alignment, have
at least one horn tip extending upwards beyond a straight line drawn
through the lowest hindmost portion of the horn base and the lowermost
edge of the eye socket;



"full curl thinhorn ram mountain sheep"

means any thinhorn ram mountain sheep that has attained the age of 8
years as evidenced by true horn annuli as determined by the regional
manager or designate, or whose horn tip, when viewed squarely from the
side at right angles to the sagittal plane of the skull, extends
dorsally beyond the nose bridge plane;



"FWID number"

has the same meaning as in the Wildlife Act General Regulation, B.C.
Reg. 340/82;



"group application"

means a group application referred to in section 4.2 (1);



"hunting companion"

has the same meaning as in the Hunting Licensing Regulation, B.C. Reg.
8/99;



"management unit"

or
"M.U."
means an area designated as a management unit by B.C. Reg. 64/96, the
Management Unit Regulation;



"mature bull moose"

means a bull moose with at least one palmated antler, the longest
antler being longer than 30 cm and from which protrudes a brow tine or
brow palm which is at least 15 cm in length;


"Region"
means a region as set out in the Hunting Regulation;



"shared limited entry hunting authorization"

means a limited entry hunting authorization referred to in section 4.3
(1) that is shared by a group of persons;


"spike buck"
means a male deer having antlers that are composed of a main beam
length from which there are no bony projections greater than 2.54 cm
(1 inch) in length;



"spike bull elk"

means an elk having antlers that are composed of a main beam from
which there are no bony projections more than 2.5 cm in length;



"spike bull moose"

means a moose having antlers with no bony projections more than 2.5 cm
in length;



"supervising hunter"

has the same meaning as in the Hunting Licensing Regulation, B.C. Reg.
8/99;



"three quarter curl ram mountain sheep"

means any bighorn ram mountain sheep




(a)

whose head, when viewed squarely from the side, has at least one horn
tip extending beyond a straight line drawn through the back of the eye
opening and at right angles to a line drawn between the centre of the
nostril and the lowest hindmost portion of the horn base, or




(b)

whose skull and horns, if presented for examination, when viewed
squarely from the side with both horns in alignment, have at least one
horn tip extending beyond a straight line drawn through the back edge
of the eye socket and at right angles to a line drawn through the
lowest hindmost portion of the horn base and the lowermost edge of the
eye socket;



"youth hunting licence"

has the same meaning as in the Hunting Licensing Regulation, B.C. Reg.
8/99;


"zone"
means a portion of one or more management units shown in magenta on
the maps of the areas concerned contained in the "Limited Entry
Hunting Areas Maps" in Schedule II of this regulation.




(2)

Where a period of time is referred to in this regulation both the
first and the last day are included.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 166/2001, App. s. 1.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 133/96, s. 1; 130/99, App. 2, s. 1 (a); 23/2001, s. 4;
121/2001, ss. 1 and 2; 166/2001, App. s. 1; 92/2006, s. 1; 102/2007,
s. 1; 143/2009, App. 5, s. 1; 78/2016, App. 2, s. 1; 95/2016, s. 1;
49/2017; 127/2017, App. 5, s. 1; 239/2017, App. 2, s. 1; 113/2018, s.
1; 30/2020, Sch. 2, s. 1.]






Hunting limited




1.1


For the purposes of section 11 (1) (b) of the Act and subject to
section 9 of this regulation, a limited entry hunting authorization is
required to hunt a species of wildlife referred to in column 5 of an
item in Schedule I during a period set out in column 4 of the item in
an area defined by columns 1, 2 and 3 of the item.

[en. B.C. Reg. 113/2018, s. 2.]





Eligibility




2

(1)


A person is ineligible to obtain or possess a limited entry hunting
authorization unless the person is




(a)

a resident who has successfully completed the examinations referred to
in section 17 (1) of the Act or is described in section 110.3 of
the Act, or




(b)

a person described in section 11 (9) of the Act.




(1.1)

A person is ineligible to obtain a limited entry hunting authorization
if




(a)

the hunting licence, if any, of the person is suspended,




(b)

the person is ineligible to obtain a hunting licence, or




(c)

the person is prohibited from hunting.




(2)

A person is ineligible to obtain a limited entry hunting authorization
for an item described in Schedule 1 as "Youth only" if the person's
18th birthday falls before August 1 of the year of the hunt.




(3)

A person is ineligible to obtain a limited entry hunting authorization
for an item described in Schedule 1 as "Senior only" if the person's
65th birthday falls after August 1 of the year of the hunt.




(4)

A person is ineligible to obtain a limited entry hunting authorization
for an item described in Schedule 1 as "Youth and Senior only" if




(a)

the person's 18th birthday falls before August 1 of the year of the
hunt, or




(b)

the person's 65th birthday falls after August 1 of the year of the
hunt.


[en. B.C. Reg. 38/2013, App. 2, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 78/2016, App. 2,
s. 2; 127/2017, App. 5, s. 2; 30/2020, Sch. 2, s. 2.]






Applications




2.1


An applicant for a limited entry hunting authorization must make the
application in a manner and form, if any, specified by the director.

[en. B.C. Reg. 57/2018, Sch. 2.]





Application fee




3

(1)


An applicant for a limited entry hunting authorization must pay




(a)

an application fee of $5, and




(b)

a surcharge of $1 payable to the Habitat Conservation Trust Fund.




(2)

An applicant for the limited entry hunting authorization set out in
item 1 of Schedule I must pay a surcharge of $10.00 payable to a
special sheep and Roosevelt bull elk account established under the
Habitat Conservation Trust Fund.


[am. B.C. Regs. 57/94, App. 2; 136/2000, s. 1 (a); 191/2002, s. 1;
87/2003; 169/2003, s. 1; 293/2012, App. 2, s. 1.]






Conditions of application




4

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 113/2018, s. 3 (a).]




(2)

An application for a limited entry hunting authorization must be made
in relation to a specific item of Schedule I.




(3)

A person must not submit more than one application in relation to each
of the following species for a limited entry hunting authorization for
the same calendar year:




(a)

bison;




(b)

black bear;




(c)

caribou;




(d)

elk;




(e)

moose;




(f)

mountain goat;




(g)

mountain sheep;




(h)

mule (black-tailed) deer;




(i)

turkey.




(3.1)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 239/2017, App. 2, s. 2.]




(3.2)

Despite subsection (3), for mountain sheep, a person may submit a
second application for a limited entry hunting authorization for the
same calendar year, if the first application was for one of the
following items on Schedule I and the person did not receive a limited
entry hunting authorization for the item applied for with the first
application:




(a)

item 2 (Spatsizi M.U. 6-20 Zone A, Aug 1-Oct 15);




(b)

item 3 (Mount Edziza M.U. 6-21 Zone A, Aug 1-Oct 15);




(c)

item 4 (Atlin M.U. 6-25 Zone D, Aug 1-Oct 15);




(d)

item 5 (Atlin M.U. 6-27 Zone A, Aug 1-Oct 15);




(e)

item 6 (Tatshenshini M.U. 6-28, Aug 1-Oct 15);




(f)

item 7 (Tatshenshini M.U. 6-29, Aug 1-Oct 15).




(4)

It is a condition of an application for a limited entry hunting
authorization that, if a person contravenes subsection (3), every
application submitted by that person in relation to the same species
for a limited entry hunting authorization for the same calendar year
ceases to be a valid application on the occurrence of the
contravention.




(4.1)

For the purposes of section 14 of the Act, the number of limited entry
hunting authorizations that a person may obtain or hold for a calendar
year is one for each species set out in subsection (3).




(5)

For the purpose of this section,




(a)

the calendar year for a limited entry hunting authorization is the
calendar year of the first day of the period during which the species
may be hunted under the applicable item of Schedule I, and




(b)

if an item in Schedule I relates to more than one species, an
application for a limited entry hunting authorization in relation to
that item is to be considered as an application in relation to each of
those species.


[am. B.C. Regs. 190/95, s. 1; 133/96, s. 2; 134/96, s. (a); 260/97, s.
1; 130/99, App. 2, s. 1 (b) and (c); 169/2003, s. 2; 166/2005, s. 1;
102/2007, s. 2; 79/2008, s. 1; 143/2009, App. 5, s. 3; 77/2010, App.
2, s. 1; 293/2012, App. 2, s. 2; 39/2014, s. (a); 95/2016, s. 2;
239/2017, App. 2, s. 2; 66/2018, App. 2, s. 1;
113/2018, s. 3.]






Special sheep authorizations




4.1

(1)


A person who applies for the mountain sheep limited entry hunting
authorization set out in item 1 of Schedule I is exempt from section 4
(3) and (4) for that purpose.




(2)

A person who possesses a valid limited entry hunting authorization for
mountain sheep set out in item 1 of Schedule I




(a)

is exempt from section 4 (4.1) with respect to mountain sheep,




(b)

does not commit an offence, despite section 15 (i) of the Hunting
Licensing Regulation, B.C. Reg. 8/99, unless that person holds more
than 2 current mountain sheep species licences,




(c)

is exempt from section 11 (1) (e) of the Hunting Regulation, B.C. Reg.
190/84,




(d)

commits an offence if that person hunts or kills more than 2 mountain
sheep in a calendar year, and




(e)

commits an offence if that person holds more than one uncancelled
mountain sheep species licence.




(2.1)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 293/2012, App. 2, s. 3 (b).]




(3)

Section 9 (a) (ii) and (b) does not apply in relation to item 1 of
Schedule I.




(4)

Despite section 1.1, a person who possesses a valid limited entry
hunting authorization for mountain sheep, as set out in item 1 of
Schedule I, may also hunt thinhorn mountain sheep in a region for 21
days prior to the start of the period set out for that region in
column 4 of Schedule I and up to and including March 31.


[en. B.C. Reg. 136/2000, s. 1 (b); am. B.C. Regs. 83/2001; 68/2002, s.
1; 191/2002, s. 2; 169/2003, s. 3; 166/2004, s. 1; 340/2005, s. 11;
79/2008, s. 2; 293/2012, App. 2, s. 3; 113/2018, s. 4.]






Group application




4.2

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), applicants for a limited entry
hunting authorization in relation to the same item of Schedule I may
elect to form a group for the purpose of having their applications
considered together as a group application.




(2)

A group referred to in subsection (1) may not consist of more than 4
applicants.




(3)

An election under subsection (1) may not be made in respect of the
following species:




(a)

elk in Region 1 or 2;




(b)

moose;




(c)

bison;




(d)

black bear.


[en. B.C. Reg. 95/2016, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 127/2017, App. 5, s. 3;
66/2018, App. 2, s. 2.]






Shared limited entry hunting authorization




4.3

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), applicants for a limited entry
hunting authorization in relation to the same item of Schedule I may
elect to form a group for the purpose of sharing a limited entry
hunting authorization.




(2)

A group referred to in subsection (1) may not consist of more than 4
applicants.




(3)

An election under subsection (1) may be made only in relation to the
following species:




(a)

moose;




(b)

bison.


[en. B.C. Reg. 95/2016, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 5, s. 3.]






Shared hunt




4.4

(1)


Despite section 5, a shared limited entry hunting authorization is
valid for only the number and type of animal, the dates and the area
specified in it.




(2)

A person commits an offence if the person continues to hunt under a
shared limited entry hunting authorization after the first to occur of




(a)

the person taking that person's bag limit, and




(b)

the group taking the maximum number of animals specified in the shared
limited entry hunting authorization.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 68/2002, s. 3 (a).]




(4)

A person who kills an animal under a shared limited entry hunting
authorization commits an offence if the person does not report,
without delay, to every other member of the group,




(a)

the date and time of the kill, and




(b)

the name and FWID number of the person who killed the animal.




(5)

A person who hunts under a shared limited entry hunting authorization
commits an offence if the person does not have, for each animal killed
under the shared limited entry hunting authorization by the person or
another member of the group, a record of harvest, in a form specified
by the director, that shows




(a)

the date and time of the kill, and




(b)

the name and FWID number of the person who killed the animal.


[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2001, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 68/2002, s. 3; 166/2004,
s. 3; 39/2014, s. (c); 95/2016, s. 4; 127/2017, App. 5, s. 4; 30/2020,
Sch. 2, ss. 3 and 4.]






Issue of authorizations




4.5


A limited entry hunting authorization must be issued in a manner and
form, if any, specified by the director.

[en. B.C. Reg. 57/2018, Sch. 2.]





Validity of authorization




5


A limited entry hunting authorization is valid for only one of each
type of animal, the dates and the area specified in it.

[am. B.C. Reg. 77/2010, App. 2, s. 2.]





Repealed




5.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 102/2007, s. 3.]






Repealed




6


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 113/2018, s. 5.]






Random selection of applicants




7


If hunting for a species and type of wildlife in an area of the
Province is limited under section 1.1, and the number of applicants
for limited entry hunting authorizations for a species, type and area
specified in Schedule I exceeds the number to be granted as determined
by the director according to the requirements outlined in section 8,
the number of limited entry hunting authorizations




(a)

must be limited to the number specified by the director, and




(b)

subject to section 8.1, must be distributed among the applicants by
means of a lottery, so arranged that it distributes the limited entry
hunting authorizations among the applicants by chance.


[en. B.C. Reg. 394/93, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 223/2013, App. 1, s. 1;
95/2016, s. 5; 113/2018, s. 6.]






Conduct of lottery




8

(1)


The director will determine the number of limited entry hunting
authorizations to be granted during the lottery referred to in section
7 from within the range of numbers of limited entry hunting
authorizations prescribed in column 6 of Schedule I by utilizing
professional judgment of the following criteria:




(a)

recommended numbers approved and submitted by regional managers;




(b)

data on population dynamics of the species in the described area;




(c)

hunter success rates.




(2)

The director must conduct the lottery referred to in section 7, and
must inform the applicants for limited entry hunting authorizations to
be distributed under that lottery of the results of that lottery.


[en. B.C. Reg. 394/93, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 166/2004, s. 4; 95/2016,
s. 6; 239/2017, App. 2, s. 3.]






Lottery and distribution process




8.1

(1)


In this section:



"initial distribution"

means, in respect of the process of distributing limited entry hunting
authorizations described in subsection (2) (b), the part of that
process that ends when the earlier of the following occurs:




(a)

all of the limited entry hunting authorizations are distributed;




(b)

each application referred to in subsection (2) (a) has been considered
once;



"previous recipient"

means,




(a)

in respect of an applicant for a limited entry hunting authorization
for bison, caribou, mountain goat or mountain sheep, an applicant who
received, for the previous calendar year, a limited entry hunting
authorization for the species that is applied for,




(b)

in respect of an applicant for a limited entry hunting authorization
for moose, an applicant who received, for any of the previous 3
calendar years, a limited entry hunting authorization for moose,




(c)

in respect of an applicant for a limited entry hunting authorization
for elk for an area within M.U.s 1-1 to 1-15 or 2-1 to 2-19, an
applicant who received, for any of the previous 3 calendar years, a
limited entry hunting authorization for elk for an area within any of
those M.U.s, and




(d)

in respect of an applicant for a limited entry hunting authorization
for elk for an area within M.U.s 4-1 to 4-9, 4-14 to 4-40, 7-1 to
7-58, 8-1 to 8-15 or 8-21 to 8-26, an applicant who received, for the
previous calendar year, a limited entry hunting authorization for elk
for an area within any of those M.U.s;



"previous recipient application"

means any of the following:




(a)

an application for a limited entry hunting authorization in respect of
which the applicant is a previous recipient;




(b)

an application for a shared limited entry hunting authorization in
respect of which at least one member of the group among whom the
shared limited entry hunting authorization will be shared is a
previous recipient;




(c)

a group application in respect of which at least one member of the
group is a previous recipient.




(2)

In conducting the lottery referred to in section 7, the director must
ensure that




(a)

the applications for the limited entry hunting authorizations that are
to be distributed under that lottery are placed in an order that is
determined randomly by means of the lottery, and




(b)

subject to subsections (4) to (8), the limited entry hunting
authorizations are distributed to the applicants on the basis of the
ordering of the applications under paragraph (a).




(3)

For the purposes of the ordering of applications under subsection (2)
(a),




(a)

a group application must be treated as a single application, and




(b)

each application submitted by the members of a group that elected
under section 4.3 (1) to share a limited entry hunting authorization
must be treated as a separate application.




(4)

In the case of a lottery conducted in respect of limited entry hunting
authorizations for




(a)

bison, caribou, mountain goat or mountain sheep, or




(b)

elk for an area within M.U.s 4-1 to 4-9, 4-14 to 4-40, 7-1 to 7-58,
8-1 to 8-15 or 8-21 to 8-26,


during the initial distribution of limited entry hunting
authorizations under subsection (2) (b), limited entry hunting
authorizations must be distributed in respect of




(c)

each application that is not a previous recipient application, and




(d)

every second previous recipient application.




(5)

In the case of a lottery conducted in respect of limited entry hunting
authorizations for moose or for elk for an area within M.U.s 1-1 to
1-15 or 2-1 to 2-19, during the initial distribution of limited entry
hunting authorizations under subsection (2) (b), limited entry hunting
authorizations must be distributed in respect of




(a)

each application that is not a previous recipient application, and




(b)

every third previous recipient application.




(6)

After the initial distribution of limited entry hunting authorizations
under subsection (2) (b), any remaining limited entry hunting
authorizations must be distributed, on the basis of the ordering of
applications under subsection (2) (a), to applicants who did not
receive a limited entry hunting authorization as a result of the
initial distribution.




(7)

Despite this section, for the purposes of distributing limited entry
hunting authorizations under subsection (2) (b),




(a)

if a group application is drawn, limited entry hunting authorizations
must be distributed on an all-or-nothing basis as follows:




(i)

if the number of limited entry hunting authorizations remaining
available for distribution is equal to or greater than the number of
members of the group, a separate limited entry hunting authorization
must be distributed to each member;




(ii)

if the number of limited entry hunting authorizations remaining
available for distribution is less than the number of members of the
group, the group application must be removed from the lottery, and




(b)

if an application for a shared limited entry hunting authorization is
drawn,




(i)

a shared limited entry hunting authorization must be distributed to
the members of the group that is valid for the following number of
animals:




(A)

if the number of members of the group is 3 or 4 and at least 2 limited
entry hunting authorizations remain available for distribution, 2
animals;




(B)

in any other case, one animal, and




(ii)

the applications of the other members of the group must be removed
from the lottery.




(8)

If a shared limited entry hunting authorization that is valid for 2
animals is distributed in a lottery, the shared limited entry hunting
authorization counts as 2 limited entry hunting authorizations for the
purpose of determining the number of limited entry hunting
authorizations remaining available for distribution.


[en. B.C. Reg. 223/2013, App. 1, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 95/2016, s. 7;
239/2017, App. 2, s. 3.]






Exceptions from requirement to hold limited entry hunting
authorization




9


Section 1.1 does not apply in relation to the following persons:




(a)

a guide outfitter or assistant guide who is guiding a client, if




(i)

the client holds a limited entry hunting authorization for the hunt,
or




(ii)

the guide outfitter licence of the guide outfitter who is, or whose
assistant guide is, guiding the client has a quota attached for the
wildlife hunted and the period and area of the hunt;




(b)

a client guided by a guide outfitter or assistant guide, if the
condition in paragraph (a) (ii) is met for the hunt;




(c)

a person on whose behalf a youth hunting licence is held, if




(i)

the person is accompanied by a supervising hunter who holds a limited
entry hunting authorization for the hunt, and




(ii)

the person is hunting under that authorization;




(d)

a hunting companion who is assisting a resident, if




(i)

the resident holds a limited entry hunting authorization for the hunt,
and




(ii)

the hunting companion is hunting under that authorization;




(e)

a person who is hunting only for the limited purposes of assisting a
disabled hunter referred to in section 5.12 (1) of the Hunting
Licensing Regulation, B.C. Reg. 8/99, if




(i)

the permit referred to in that section is valid,




(ii)

the disabled hunter holds a limited entry hunting authorization for
the hunt, and




(iii)

the person is hunting under that authorization.

[en. B.C. Reg. 113/2018, s. 7.]



Part 2





Repealed




10-19.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 136/2000, s. 2.]




Part 3 — Hunting Restrictions



Region 1 — Vancouver Island





Repealed




20


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 68/2002, s. 4.]






Archery season




21


During the periods set out in Schedule I, the Vancouver Island seasons
for elk of either sex in Zone A of M.U. 1-04, Zone D of M.U. 1-05,
Zones A and B of M.U. 1-06 and Zone C of M.U. 1-12 are restricted to
hunting with a bow only.


[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2001, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 169/2003, s. 5;
143/2009, App. 5, s. 4; 119/2022, App. 2, s. 1.]




Region 2 — Lower Mainland





Repealed




22


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 90/2016, s. (a).]






Archery season




23


In Zones C and J of M.U. 2-05 and Zone B of M.U. 2-12 the limited
entry hunting seasons for a person to hunt bull elk are restricted to
hunting with a bow only.


[en. B.C. Reg. 166/2005, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 39/2014, s. (d).]




Region 4 — Kootenay





Repealed




24—25


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 92/2006, s. 3.]






Archery season




26

(1)


During the period September 1 to September 9, the Kootenay mountain
goat open season is restricted to hunting with a bow only.




(2)

During the period September 1 to September 19 the open season for bull
moose in M.U.s 4-36, 4-37, Zones D, E and F of M.U. 4-38 and Zones D,
E, and F of M.U.s 4-39 and 4-40 is restricted to hunting with a bow
only.




(3)

During the period September 1 to October 14 the open season for bull
moose in Zones A and B of M.U. 4-01, Zones A and B of M.U. 4-02, M.U.s
4-03 to 4-09, M.U.s 4-14 to 4-22, Zones A and B of M.U. 4-23, M.U.s
4-24 to 4-31, Zones A and B of M.U. 4-32, and M.U.s 4-33 to 4-35 is
restricted to hunting with a bow only.




(4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 79/2008, s. 4.]


[en. B.C. Reg. 166/2005, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 92/2006, s. 4; 102/2007,
s. 4; 79/2008, s. 4.]






Kootenay — turkey




26.1


During the period December 1 to December 31, the open season for
turkey in the Kootenay Region is restricted to hunting with a bow or
shot only.

[en. B.C. Reg. 66/2018, App. 2, s. 3 (a).]



Region 5 — Cariboo





Repealed




26.2-26.3


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 84/2020, App. 2, s. 1.]






Cariboo — elk




26.4


In the Cariboo Region limited entry hunting for elk is restricted to
private land and a hunter must have the permission of the landowner.

[en. B.C. Reg. 84/2020, App. 2, s. 2.]



Region 6 — Skeena





Tagish Highlands — mountain goat




27


A person commits an offence if the person hunts mountain goat within
that portion of Chilkoot National Historic Site found within the
Tagish Highlands limited entry hunting area of Zone A of M.U. 6-27.


[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2001, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 30/2020, Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer




27.1

(1)


In Zone A of M.U. 6-04 limited entry hunting for antlerless mule
(black-tailed) deer is restricted to private land and a hunter must
have the permission of the landowner.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a person issued a limited entry hunting
authorization for antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer may hunt on
Crown land within 400 metres of private land within Zone A of M.U.
6-04.

[en. B.C. Reg. 166/2005, s. 5.]





Skeena — elk




27.2

(1)


During the period December 1 to December 31, the open season for elk
in the Skeena Region is restricted to hunting with a bow only.




(2)

In the Skeena Region limited entry hunting for elk is restricted to
private land and a hunter must have the permission of the landowner.

[en. B.C. Reg. 66/2018, App. 2, s. 3 (b).]





Smithers — bull moose




27.3


The open seasons for bull moose as described in each of the following
items of Schedule I are restricted to hunting with a bow only:




(a)

item 601 (Smithers, M.U. 6-01, Oct 1-Oct 19);




(b)

item 602 (Smithers, M.U. 6-10, Zone B, Sept 1-Sept 9 and Nov 16-Nov
20);




(c)

item 603 (Smithers, M.U. 6-30, Zone A, Sept 1-Sept 9 and Nov 16-Nov
20);




(d)

item 604 (Smithers, M.U.s 6-08 and 6-09, Sept 1-Sept 9 and Nov 16-Nov
20);




(e)

item 605 (Smithers, M.U.s 6-04, 6-05 and 6-06, Sept 1-Sept 9 and Nov
16-Nov 20);




(f)

item 606 (Smithers, M.U. 6-02, Oct 1-Oct 19);




(g)

item 607 (Smithers, M.U. 6-04, Oct 1-Oct 19);




(h)

item 608 (Smithers, M.U.s 6-03, 6-10 and 6-11, Zone A, Oct 1-Oct 19);




(i)

item 609 (Smithers, M.U. 6-05, Oct 1-Oct 19);




(j)

item 610 (Smithers, M.U. 6-06, Oct 1-Oct 19);




(k)

item 611 (Smithers, M.U. 6-07, Oct 1-Oct 19);




(l)

item 612 (Smithers, M.U. 6-08, Oct 1-Oct 19);




(m)

item 613 (Smithers, M.U. 6-09, Oct 1-Oct 19);




(n)

item 614 (Smithers, M.U. 6-15, Zone A, Oct 1-Oct 19);




(o)

item 615 (Smithers, M.U. 6-30, Zone A, Oct 1-Oct 19).


[en. B.C. Reg. 119/2022, App. 2, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 2,
s. 1.]




Region 7 — Omineca-Peace





Peace River — elk




28

(1)


The Peace River limited entry hunting area for elk within Zone A of
M.U. 7-20 as described in Schedule I is December 1 to February 28.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a person issued a limited entry hunting
authorization for elk in the Peace River limited entry hunting area
may also hunt on private land within M.U.s 7-22, 7-43, 7-44 and 7-58
and Zone A of M.U. 7-45 if the person has the permission of the land
owner.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), a person issued a limited entry hunting
authorization for elk in the Peace River limited entry hunting area
may hunt on Crown land within 2 000 metres of any private land within
M.U.s 7-22, 7-43, 7-44 and 7-58 and Zone A of M.U. 7-45.


[en. B.C. Reg. 79/2008, s. 5; am. B.C. Reg. 143/2009, App. 5, s. 5.]






Prince George — elk




29

(1)


A person may hunt in the Prince George limited entry hunting area for
elk, as described in Schedule I, but only on private land and only
with permission of the landowner.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 80/2012, App. 3, s. 1.]


[en. B.C. Reg. 79/2008, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 80/2012, App. 3, s. 1.]






Archery season




29.1


During the period September 1 to September 9 the open season for bull
moose in M.U.s 7-2 to 7-11, 7-13 to 7-15, 7-17 and 7-24 to 7-30 and
Zones A and B of M.U. 7-12 is restricted to hunting with a bow only.

[en. B.C. Reg. 90/2016, s. (b).]





Peace River — mountain goat




30


A person commits an offence if the person hunts mountain goat in
Monkman Provincial Park in the Peace River limited entry hunting area
of Zones C and D of M.U. 7-21 and Zone B of M.U.s 7-21 and 7-19.


[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2001, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 30/2020, Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Peace Region — bull moose




30.1


A person commits an offence if the person hunts bull moose in M.U.s
7-19 to 7-22, 7-31 to 7-35, 7-44 to 7-49, 7-55, 7-56 or 7-58 unless
the bull moose has




(a)

no more than 2 points on one antler,




(b)

at least one antler with a distinct brow palm bearing 3 or more
points, or




(c)

at least one antler which has at least 10 tines.

[en. B.C. Reg. 119/2022, App. 2, s. 3.]



Region 8 — Southern Interior





Repealed




31


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 80/2012, App. 3, s. 1.]






Repealed




32


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 5, s. 5.]






Similkameen — mountain goat




33


A person commits an offence if the person hunts mountain goat within
0.4 km of the northern boundary of Highway No. 3 between Hedley and
Keremeos.


[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2001, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 30/2020, Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Repealed




33.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 5, s. 5.]




General





Moose and elk antlers — offence




34


A person commits an offence if the person kills a bull elk or moose in
a limited entry hunting area and does not, while returning from the
hunt, keep the antlers of the animal for inspection by an officer.


[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2001, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 30/2020, Sch. 2, s. 3.]




Schedule I


[en. B.C. Reg. 119/2022, App. 2, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 157/2022, App. 2,
s. 2; 16/2023, App. 3; 112/2023, App. 2, s. 1.]




Item

Column 1


Limited Entry

Hunting Area



Column 2

M.U.


Column 3

Zone


Column 4

Open Season


Column 5


Type of

Wildlife



Column 6

ROA



1

In those portions of Regions 3 through 8 in which there is an open
season for any ram mountain sheep



Region 3

Region 4

Region 5

Region 6

Region 7

Region 8


Sept 10-Dec 20

Sept 10-Dec 20

Sept 1-Dec 20

Aug 1-Dec 20

Aug 1-Dec 20

Aug 25-Dec 20

any mountain sheep
1


2
Spatsizi
6-20
A
Aug 1-Oct 15

full curl thinhorn ram mountain sheep

20-110


3
Mount Edziza
6-21
A
Aug 1-Oct 15

full curl thinhorn ram mountain sheep

1-50


4
Atlin
6-25
D
Aug 1-Oct 15

full curl thinhorn ram mountain sheep

1-100


5
Atlin
6-27
A
Aug 1-Oct 15

full curl thinhorn ram mountain sheep

1-100


6
Tatshenshini
6-28

Aug 1-Oct 15

full curl thinhorn ram mountain sheep

1-100


7
Tatshenshini
6-29

Aug 1-Oct 15

full curl thinhorn ram mountain sheep

1-50


8
Quadra Island
1-15
A
Sept 10-Dec 10

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-100


9
Vancouver Island
1-04
A
Sept 1-Oct 10
elk — either sex
1-50


10
Vancouver Island
1-04
A
Oct 15-Nov 10
elk — either sex
1-50


11
Vancouver Island
1-04
A
Nov 15-Dec 10
elk — either sex
1-50


12
Vancouver Island
1-04
A
Dec 15-Jan 10
elk — either sex
1-50


13
Vancouver Island
1-05
D
Oct 10-Dec 15
elk — either sex
1-50


14
Vancouver Island
1-06
A
Sept 10-Sept 30
elk — either sex
1-50


15
Vancouver Island
1-06
A
Oct 10-Dec 24
elk — either sex
1-50


16
Vancouver Island
1-06
B
Sept 10-Dec 15
elk — either sex
1-50


17
Vancouver Island
1-12
C
Sept 10-Sept 30
elk — either sex
1-50


18
Vancouver Island
1-12
C
Oct 10-Dec 15
elk — either sex
1-50


19
Vancouver Island
1-03
B
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


20
Vancouver Island
1-04
A
Sept 1-Oct 10
antlerless elk
1-50


21
Vancouver Island
1-04
B
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


22
Vancouver Island
1-04
C
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


23
Vancouver Island
1-05
C
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


24
Vancouver Island
1-09
A, D
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


25
Vancouver Island
1-09
B
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


26
Vancouver Island
1-09
C
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


27
Vancouver Island
1-10
A
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


28
Vancouver Island
1-10
B
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


29
Vancouver Island
1-10
C
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


30
Vancouver Island
1-10
H
Sept 1-Sept 20
antlerless elk
1-50


31
Vancouver Island
1-10
H
Sept 21-Oct 10
antlerless elk
1-50


32
Vancouver Island
1-10
D, H
Oct 11-Nov 20
antlerless elk
1-50


33
Vancouver Island
1-10
D, H
Nov 21-Dec 31
antlerless elk
1-50


34
Vancouver Island
1-10
E
Sept 10-Oct 30
antlerless elk
1-50


35
Vancouver Island
1-10
E
Nov 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


36
Vancouver Island
1-10
F
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


37
Vancouver Island
1-10
G
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


38
Vancouver Island
1-11
A
Dec 1-Dec 31
antlerless elk
1-50


39
Vancouver Island
1-11
B
Dec 1-Dec 31
antlerless elk
1-50


40
Vancouver Island
1-03
A
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


41
Vancouver Island
1-03
B
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


42
Vancouver Island
1-04
B
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


43
Vancouver Island
1-04
C
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


44
Vancouver Island
1-05
A

Beginning the first Saturday before Thanksgiving Day and ending
the last Sunday of November

bull elk
1-50


45
Vancouver Island
1-05
B

Beginning the first Saturday before Thanksgiving Day and ending
the last Sunday of November

bull elk
1-50


46
Vancouver Island
1-05
C
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


47
Vancouver Island
1-06
D
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


48
Vancouver Island
1-09
A
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


49
Vancouver Island
1-09
B
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


50
Vancouver Island
1-09
C
Oct 10-Oct 20
bull elk
1-50


51
Vancouver Island
1-09
C
Oct 24-Nov 5
bull elk
1-50


52
Vancouver Island
1-09
C
Nov 9-Nov 25
bull elk
1-50


53
Vancouver Island
1-09
D
Oct 10-Oct 20
bull elk
1-50


54
Vancouver Island
1-09
D
Oct 21-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


55
Vancouver Island
1-10
A
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


56
Vancouver Island
1-10
B
Oct 10-Oct 20
bull elk
1-50


57
Vancouver Island
1-10
B
Oct 21-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


58
Vancouver Island
1-10
C
Oct 10-Oct 20
bull elk
1-50


59
Vancouver Island
1-10
C
Oct 21-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


60
Vancouver Island
1-10
H
Sept 10-Sept 30
bull elk
1-50


61
Vancouver Island
1-10
H
Oct 1-Oct 20
bull elk
1-50


62
Vancouver Island
1-10
D, H
Oct 10-Nov 10
bull elk
1-50


63
Vancouver Island
1-10
D, H
Nov 11-Nov 30
bull elk
1-50


64
Vancouver Island
1-10
D, H
Dec 1-Dec 20
bull elk
1-50


65
Vancouver Island
1-10
E
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


66
Vancouver Island
1-10
F
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


67
Vancouver Island
1-10
G
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


68
Vancouver Island
1-10
I
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


69
Vancouver Island
1-11
A
Oct 1-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


70
Vancouver Island
1-11
B
Oct 1-Oct 15
bull elk
1-50


71
Vancouver Island
1-11
B
Oct 16-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


72
Vancouver Island
1-12
B
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


73
Vancouver Island
1-12
D
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


74
Vancouver Island
1-12
E
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


75
Vancouver Island
1-13
C
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-50


76
Pemberton
2-11

Oct 1-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-100


77
Pemberton
2-11

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-100


78
Sechelt
2-05
A
Oct 15-Nov 15
antlerless elk
1-20


79
Sechelt
2-05
A
Nov 16-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-20


80
Sechelt
2-05
C
Oct 15-Nov 15
antlerless elk
1-20


81
Sechelt
2-05
C
Nov 16-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-20


82
Narrow/Tzoonie
2-05
D
Oct 10-Nov 20
antlerless elk
1-10


83
McNab Creek
2-05
F
Oct 10-Nov 20
antlerless elk
1-10


84
Deserted River
2-05
G
Oct 10-Nov 20
antlerless elk
1-10


85
Vancouver River
2-05
H
Oct 10-Nov 20
antlerless elk
1-10


86
Rainy River
2-05
I
Oct 15-Nov 15
antlerless elk
1-20


87
Rainy River
2-05
I
Nov 16-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-20


88
Rainy-Grey
2-05
J
Oct 1-Oct 31
antlerless elk
1-20


89
Rainy-Grey
2-05
J
Nov 1-Nov 30
antlerless elk
1-20


90
Grey River
2-05
K
Oct 15-Nov 15
antlerless elk
1-20


91
Grey River
2-05
K
Nov 16-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-20


92
Squamish River
2-06
A
Oct 10-Nov 20
antlerless elk
1-20


93
Indian River
2-08
A
Oct 10-Nov 20
antlerless elk
1-10


94
Pitt River
2-08
B
Oct 10-Oct 31
antlerless elk
1-20


95
Pitt River
2-08
B
Nov 1-Nov 30
antlerless elk
1-20


96
Stave River
2-08
C
Oct 10-Nov 20
antlerless elk
1-10


97
Daniels River
2-12
D
Oct 10-Nov 20
antlerless elk
1-10


98
Brittain River
2-12
E
Oct 10-Nov 20
antlerless elk
1-10


99
Skwawka River
2-12
Q
Nov 16-Nov 30
antlerless elk
1-20


100
Skwawka River
2-12
Q
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-20


101
Orford River
2-14
A
Nov 21-Dec 31
antlerless elk
1-20


102
Southgate River
2-14
B
Nov 1-Dec 10
antlerless elk
1-20


103
Homathco River
2-15
A
Nov 1-Dec 10
antlerless elk
1-20


104
Sechelt
2-05
A, C
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-20


105
Sechelt
2-05
C
Oct 1-Oct 31
bull elk
1-20


106
Sechelt
2-05
C
Nov 1-Nov 30
bull elk
1-20


107
Narrow/Tzoonie
2-05
D
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


108
Clowhom River
2-05
E
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


109
McNab Creek
2-05
F
Oct 10-Oct 20
bull elk
1-10


110
McNab Creek
2-05
F
Oct 21-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


111
Deserted River
2-05
G
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


112
Vancouver River
2-05
H
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


113
Rainy River
2-05
I
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


114
Rainy-Grey
2-05
J
Oct 1-Oct 31
bull elk
1-10


114.1
Rainy-Grey
2-05
J
Nov 1-Nov 30
bull elk
1-20


115
Rainy-Grey
2-05
K
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-20


116
Squamish River
2-06
A
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


117
Indian River
2-08
A
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


118
Pitt River
2-08
B
Oct 10-Nov 10
bull elk
1-20


119
Stave River
2-08
C
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


120
Powell River
2-12
A, B
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


121
Powell River
2-12
B
Oct 10-Nov 30
bull elk
1-10


122
Daniels River
2-12
D
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


123
Brittain River
2-12
E
Oct 10-Oct 20
bull elk
1-10


124
Brittain River
2-12
E
Oct 21-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


125
Theodosia River
2-12
F
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


126
Skwawka River
2-12
Q
Oct 1-Oct 15
bull elk
1-10


127
Skwawka River
2-12
Q
Oct 16-Oct 31
bull elk
1-10


128
Skwawka River
2-12
Q
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull elk
1-10


129
Stillwater
2-12
S
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


130
Orford River
2-14
A
Oct 20-Oct 31
bull elk
1-2


131
Orford River
2-14
A
Nov 1-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


132
Southgate River
2-14
B
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


133
Homathko River
2-15
A
Oct 10-Nov 20
bull elk
1-10


134
Mt. Meager
2-11
A
Sept 1-Oct 31
adult mountain goat
1-10


135
Upper Lillooet
2-11
B
Sept 1-Oct 31
adult mountain goat
1-10


136
Kamloops
3-12

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


137
Kamloops
3-13

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


138
Kamloops
3-14

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


139
Kamloops
3-15

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


140
Kamloops
3-16

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


141
Kamloops
3-17

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


142
Kamloops
3-18

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


143
Kamloops
3-19

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


144
Kamloops
3-20

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


145
Kamloops
3-26

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


146
Kamloops
3-27

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


147
Kamloops
3-28

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


148
Kamloops
3-29

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


149
Kamloops
3-30

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


150
Kamloops
3-31

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


151
Kamloops
3-32

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


152
Kamloops
3-33

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


153
Kamloops
3-36

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


154
Kamloops
3-37

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


155
Kamloops
3-38

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


156
Kamloops
3-39

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


157
Kamloops
3-40

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


158
Kamloops
3-41

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


159
Kamloops
3-42

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


160
Kamloops
3-46

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


161
Kamloops
3-12

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


162
Kamloops
3-13

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


163
Kamloops
3-18

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


164
Kamloops
3-19

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


165
Kamloops
3-20

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


166
Kamloops
3-26

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


167
Kamloops
3-27

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


168
Kamloops
3-28

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


169
Kamloops
3-29

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


170
Kamloops
3-30

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


171
Kamloops
3-31

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


172
Kamloops
3-36

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


173
Kamloops
3-37

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


174
Kamloops
3-39

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


175
Kamloops
3-40

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


176
Kamloops
3-41

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


177
Kamloops
3-42

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


178
Kamloops
3-44

Nov 1-Nov 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


179
Kamloops
3-46

Sept 20-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


180
Kamloops
3-12
A
Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


181
Kamloops
3-12
B
Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


182
Kamloops
3-13

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


183
Kamloops
3-17

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


184
Kamloops
3-18

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


185
Kamloops
3-19
A
Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


186
Kamloops
3-19
B
Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


187
Kamloops
3-20

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


188
Kamloops
3-26

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


189
Kamloops
3-27

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


190
Kamloops
3-28
A
Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


191
Kamloops
3-28
B
Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


192
Kamloops
3-29
A
Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


193
Kamloops
3-29
B
Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


194
Kamloops
3-30
A
Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


195
Kamloops
3-30
B
Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


196
Kamloops
3-31
A
Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


197
Kamloops
3-31
B
Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


198
Kamloops
3-32

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


199
Kamloops
3-33

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


200
Kamloops
3-35

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


201
Kamloops
3-36

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


202
Kamloops
3-37

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


203
Kamloops
3-38

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


204
Kamloops
3-39

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


205
Kamloops
3-40

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


206
Kamloops
3-41

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


207
Kamloops
3-42

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


208
Kamloops
3-43

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


209
Kamloops
3-44

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


210
Kamloops
3-46

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


211
Kamloops
3-12
A
Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


212
Kamloops
3-12
B
Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


213
Kamloops
3-13

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


214
Kamloops
3-17

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


215
Kamloops
3-18

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


216
Kamloops
3-19
A
Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


217
Kamloops
3-19
B
Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


218
Kamloops
3-20

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


219
Kamloops
3-26

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


220
Kamloops
3-27

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


221
Kamloops
3-28
A
Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


222
Kamloops
3-28
B
Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


223
Kamloops
3-29
A
Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


224
Kamloops
3-29
B
Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


225
Kamloops
3-30
A
Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


226
Kamloops
3-30
B
Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


227
Kamloops
3-31
A
Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


228
Kamloops
3-31
B
Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


229
Kamloops
3-32

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


230
Kamloops
3-33

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


231
Kamloops
3-35

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


232
Kamloops
3-36

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


233
Kamloops
3-37

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


234
Kamloops
3-38

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


235
Kamloops
3-39

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


236
Kamloops
3-40

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


237
Kamloops
3-41

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


238
Kamloops
3-42

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


239
Kamloops
3-43

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


240
Kamloops
3-44

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


241
Kamloops
3-46

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-100


242
Kamloops
3-46

Dec 1-Dec 10
bull moose
1-100


243
Nahatlatch River
3-15
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-10


244
Kamloops
3-16
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


245
Kamloops
3-16
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


246
Kamloops
3-16
C
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


247
Kamloops
3-16
D
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


248
Kamloops
3-16
E
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


249
Kamloops
3-16
G
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


250
Kamloops
3-32
E
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


251
Kamloops
3-32
F
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


252
Kamloops
3-33
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


253
Kamloops
3-33
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


254
Kamloops
3-33
C
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


255
Kamloops
3-33
E
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


256
Kamloops
3-33
F
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


257
Kamloops
3-35,3-36
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


258
Kamloops
3-36,3-37,3-42
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


259
Kamloops
3-41,3-42
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


260
Kamloops
3-46
A
Sept 20-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-5


261
Spences Bridge
3-17
C
Nov 1-Nov 20
bighorn ram mountain sheep
1-10


262 to 264

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 112/2023, App. 2, s. 1 (a).]



265
Kamloops Lake
3-29
E
Nov 1-Nov 20
bighorn ram mountain sheep
1-10


266
Fraser River
3-17
A
Sept 20-Oct 20
3/4 curl ram mountain sheep
1-10


267
Fraser River
3-17
B
Sept 20-Oct 20
3/4 curl ram mountain sheep
1-10


268
Fraser River
3-17
D
Sept 20-Oct 20
3/4 curl ram mountain sheep
1-10


269
Fraser River
3-31
A
Sept 20-Oct 20
3/4 curl ram mountain sheep
1-10


270
Fraser River
3-31
B
Sept 20-Oct 20
3/4 curl ram mountain sheep
1-10


271
Fraser River
3-31
C
Sept 20-Oct 20
3/4 curl ram mountain sheep
1-10


272
Fraser River
3-31
D
Sept 20-Oct 20
3/4 curl ram mountain sheep
1-10


273
Relay Creek
3-32
D
Sept 20-Oct 20
3/4 curl ram mountain sheep
1-20


274
Shulaps Range
3-32
E
Sept 20-Oct 20
3/4 curl ram mountain sheep
1-20


275
Fraser River
3-32
F
Sept 20-Oct 20
3/4 curl ram mountain sheep
1-20


276
Fraser River
3-32
G
Sept 20-Oct 20
3/4 curl ram mountain sheep
1-20


277
Fraser River
3-17
A
Nov 1-Nov 15
ewe or juvenile mountain sheep
1-20


278 to 280

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 112/2023, App. 2, s. 1 (a).]



281
Fraser River
3-31
B
Nov 1-Nov 15
ewe or juvenile mountain sheep
1-20


282
Fraser River
3-31
C
Nov 1-Nov 15
ewe or juvenile mountain sheep
1-30


283
Fraser River
3-32
C
Nov 1-Nov 15
ewe or juvenile mountain sheep
1-30


284
Kootenay
4-38
D
Oct 16-Nov 30
cow or calf moose
1-200


285
Kootenay
4-38
E
Oct 16-Nov 30
cow or calf moose
1-200


286
Kootenay
4-38
F
Oct 16-Nov 30
cow or calf moose
1-200


287
Kootenay
4-39
D
Oct 16-Nov 30
cow or calf moose
1-200


288
Kootenay
4-39
E
Oct 16-Nov 30
cow or calf moose
1-200


289
Kootenay
4-39
F
Oct 16-Nov 30
cow or calf moose
1-200


290
Kootenay
4-01
A
Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


291
Kootenay
4-01
B
Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


292
Kootenay
4-02
A
Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


293
Kootenay
4-02
B
Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


294
Kootenay
4-03

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


295
Kootenay
4-04

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


296
Kootenay
4-05

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


297
Kootenay
4-06

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


298
Kootenay
4-07

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


299
Kootenay
4-08

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


300
Kootenay
4-09

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


301
Kootenay
4-14

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


302
Kootenay
4-15

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


303
Kootenay
4-16

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


304
Kootenay
4-17

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


305
Kootenay
4-18

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


306
Kootenay
4-19

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


307
Kootenay
4-20

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


308
Kootenay
4-21

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


309
Kootenay
4-22

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


310
Kootenay
4-23
A
Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


311
Kootenay
4-23
B
Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


312
Kootenay
4-24

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


313
Kootenay
4-25

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


314
Kootenay
4-26

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


315
Kootenay
4-27

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


316
Kootenay
4-28

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


317
Kootenay
4-29

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


318
Kootenay
4-30

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


319
Kootenay
4-31

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


320
Kootenay
4-32
A
Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


321
Kootenay
4-32
B
Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


322
Kootenay
4-33

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


323
Kootenay
4-34

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


324
Kootenay
4-35

Sept 1-Oct 14 & Oct 15-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


325
Kootenay
4-36


Sept 1-Sept 19 & Sept 20-Nov 15

bull moose
1-50


326
Kootenay
4-37


Sept 1-Sept 19 & Sept 20-Nov 15

bull moose
1-50


327
Kootenay
4-38
D

Sept 1-Sept 19 & Sept 20-Nov 15

bull moose
1-200


328
Kootenay
4-38
E

Sept 1-Sept 19 & Sept 20-Nov 15

bull moose
1-200


329
Kootenay
4-38
F

Sept 1-Sept 19 & Sept 20-Nov 15

bull moose
1-200


330
Kootenay
4-39
D

Sept 1-Sept 19 & Sept 20-Nov 15

bull moose
1-200


331
Kootenay
4-39
E

Sept 1-Sept 19 & Sept 20-Nov 15

bull moose
1-200


332
Kootenay
4-39
F

Sept 1-Sept 19 & Sept 20-Nov 15

bull moose
1-200


333
Kootenay
4-40


Sept 1-Sept 19 & Sept 20-Nov 15

bull moose
1-50


334
Kootenay
4-01
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


335
Kootenay
4-01
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


336
Kootenay
4-01
C
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


337
Kootenay
4-01
D
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


338
Kootenay
4-01
E
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


339
Kootenay
4-01
F
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


340
Kootenay
4-02
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


341
Kootenay
4-06
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


342
Kootenay
4-16
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


343
Kootenay
4-16
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


344
Kootenay
4-16
C
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


345
Kootenay
4-17
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


346
Kootenay
4-17
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


347
Kootenay
4-18
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


348
Kootenay
4-19
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


349
Kootenay
4-19
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


350
Kootenay
4-20
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


351
Kootenay
4-20
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


352
Kootenay
4-20
C
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


353
Kootenay
4-20
D
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


354
Kootenay
4-21
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


355
Kootenay
4-21
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


356
Kootenay
4-22
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


357
Kootenay
4-22
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


358
Kootenay
4-22
C
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


359
Kootenay
4-22
D
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


360
Kootenay
4-22
E
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


361
Kootenay
4-22
F
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


362
Kootenay
4-22
G
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


363
Kootenay
4-23
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


364
Kootenay
4-23
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-200


365
Kootenay
4-23
C
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


366
Kootenay
4-23
E
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


367
Kootenay
4-23
F
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


368
Kootenay
4-23
G
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


369
Kootenay
4-23
J
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


370
Kootenay
4-23
K
Sept 10-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


371
Kootenay
4-24
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


372
Kootenay
4-24
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-200


373
Kootenay
4-24
C
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-150


374
Kootenay
4-24
D
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


375
Kootenay
4-24
E
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


376
Kootenay
4-24
F
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


377
Kootenay
4-25
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


378
Kootenay
4-25
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


379
Kootenay
4-25
C
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-200


380
Kootenay
4-25
D
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


381
Kootenay
4-25
E
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


382
Kootenay
4-26
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


383
Kootenay
4-26
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


384
Kootenay
4-26
C
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-150


385
Kootenay
4-26
D
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


386
Kootenay
4-27
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


387
Kootenay
4-27
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


388
Kootenay
4-27
C
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


389
Kootenay
4-31
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


390
Kootenay
4-31
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


391
Kootenay
4-32
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


392
Kootenay
4-33

Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


393
Kootenay
4-34
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


394
Kootenay
4-34
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


395
Kootenay
4-34
C
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


396
Kootenay
4-35
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


397
Kootenay
4-35
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-150


398
Kootenay
4-36
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


399
Kootenay
4-36
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


400
Kootenay
4-37
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


401
Kootenay
4-38
A
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-50


402
Kootenay
4-38
B
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


403
Kootenay
4-38
C
Sept 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-150


404
Flathead South
4-01
A
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-15


405
Flathead North
4-01
B
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-15


406
Phillips Creek
4-02
A
Nov 1-Nov 10
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-5


407
Phillips Creek
4-02
A
Nov 11-Nov 20
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-5


408
Galton
4-02
B
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-15


409
Wigwam
4-02
C
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-20


410
Premier/Sharks-tooth
4-21
A
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-15


411
Van Nostrand
4-21
B
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-15


412
Lizard
4-22
A
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-15


413
Bull River
4-22
B
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-15


414
Elkview
4-23
A
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-50


415
Fording Ewin
4-23
B
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-75


416
Upper East
4-23
C
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-15


417
Quarrie
4-23
D
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-15


418
Crossing Creek
4-23
E
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-15


419
Mutton Ninemile
4-24
A
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-15


420
Columbia Lake
4-25
A
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-15


421
Mt. Assiniboine Park
4-25
F
Oct 1-Oct 20
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-5


422
Mt. Assiniboine Park
4-25
F
Oct 21-Oct 31
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-5


423
Radium North
4-35
A
Sept 10-Oct 25
full curl bighorn mountain sheep
1-15


424
Kootenay
4-02

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


425
Kootenay
4-03

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


426
Kootenay
4-04

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


427
Kootenay
4-05

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


428
Kootenay
4-06

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


429
Kootenay
4-07

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


430
Kootenay
4-08

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


431
Kootenay
4-09

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


432
Kootenay
4-14

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


433
Kootenay
4-15

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


434
Kootenay
4-16

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


435
Kootenay
4-17

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


436
Kootenay
4-18

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


437
Kootenay
4-19

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


438
Kootenay
4-20

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


439
Kootenay
4-21

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


440
Kootenay
4-22

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


441
Kootenay
4-23

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


442
Kootenay
4-24

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


443
Kootenay
4-25

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


444
Kootenay
4-26

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


445
Kootenay
4-27

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


446
Kootenay
4-34

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


447
Kootenay
4-35

Dec 1-Dec 31
turkey
1-100


448

Cariboo

*


5-01

Oct 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


449

Cariboo

*


5-02

Oct 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-400


450

Cariboo

*


5-03

Oct 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


451

Cariboo

*


5-13

Oct 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


452

Cariboo

*


5-14

Oct 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-400


453

Cariboo

*


5-15

Oct 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


454
Cariboo
5-01

Oct 1-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-150


455
Cariboo
5-02
A
Oct 1-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-150


456
Cariboo
5-02
B
Oct 1-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-250


457
Cariboo
5-02
C
Oct 1-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-250


458
Cariboo
5-02
D
Oct 1-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-300


459
Cariboo
5-03
A
Oct 1-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-300


460
Cariboo
5-03
B
Oct 1-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-300


461
Cariboo
5-13
A
Oct 1-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-300


462
Cariboo
5-13
B
Oct 1-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-300


463
Cariboo
5-14
A
Oct 1-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-400


464
Cariboo
5-14
B
Oct 1-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


465
Cariboo
5-01

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-300


466
Cariboo
5-02
A
Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-300


467
Cariboo
5-02
B
Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-500


468
Cariboo
5-02
C
Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-500


469
Cariboo
5-02
D
Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-600


470
Cariboo
5-03
A
Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-600


471
Cariboo
5-03
B
Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-600


472
Cariboo
5-04

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-100


473
Cariboo
5-05

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


474
Cariboo
5-08

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-50


475
Cariboo
5-13
A
Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-600


476
Cariboo
5-13
B
Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-600


477
Cariboo
5-14
A
Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-800


478
Cariboo
5-14
B
Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-400


479
Cariboo
5-15

Nov 1-Nov 30

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-100


480
Cariboo
5-02
A
Nov 15-Dec 14
antlerless elk
1-50


481
Cariboo
5-02
A
Dec 15-Jan 14
antlerless elk
1-50


482
Cariboo
5-02
A
Jan 15-Feb 14
antlerless elk
1-50


483
Cariboo
5-02
A
Nov 15-Dec 14
bull elk
1-50


484
Cariboo
5-02
A
Dec 15-Jan 14
bull elk
1-50


485
Cariboo
5-02
A
Jan 15-Feb 14
bull elk
1-50


486
Cariboo
5-01

Sept 10-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


487
Cariboo
5-01

Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-60


488
Cariboo
5-01

Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


489
Cariboo
5-01

Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


490
Cariboo
5-02
A
Sept 10-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


491
Cariboo
5-02
A
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-60


492
Cariboo
5-02
A
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


493
Cariboo
5-02
A
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


494
Cariboo
5-02
B
Sept 10-Sept 30
bull moose
1-150


495
Cariboo
5-02
B
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-90


496
Cariboo
5-02
B
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-150


497
Cariboo
5-02
B
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-150


498
Cariboo
5-02
C
Sept 10-Sept 30
bull moose
1-150


499
Cariboo
5-02
C
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-90


500
Cariboo
5-02
C
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-150


501
Cariboo
5-02
C
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-150


502
Cariboo
5-02
D
Sept 10-Sept 30
bull moose
1-150


503
Cariboo
5-02
D
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-90


504
Cariboo
5-02
D
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-150


505
Cariboo
5-02
D
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-150


506
Cariboo
5-03
A
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-60


507
Cariboo
5-03
A
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


508
Cariboo
5-03
A
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


509
Cariboo
5-04
A
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-30


510
Cariboo
5-04
A
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-50


511
Cariboo
5-04
A
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


512
Cariboo
5-04
B
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-90


513
Cariboo
5-04
B
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-150


514
Cariboo
5-04
B
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-150


515
Cariboo
5-05

Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-50


516
Cariboo
5-05

Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-30


517
Cariboo
5-05

Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


518
Cariboo
5-06
A
Sept 10-Sept 30
bull moose
1-50


519
Cariboo
5-06
A
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-30


520
Cariboo
5-06
A
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-50


521
Cariboo
5-06
A
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


522
Cariboo
5-10

Sept 10-Sept 30
bull moose
1-50


523
Cariboo
5-10

Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-30


524
Cariboo
5-10

Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-50


525
Cariboo
5-10

Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


526
Cariboo
5-11
A
Sept 10-Sept 30
bull moose
1-50


527
Cariboo
5-11
A
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-30


528
Cariboo
5-11
A
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-50


529
Cariboo
5-11
A
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


530
Cariboo
5-12
A
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-90


531
Cariboo
5-12
A
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-150


532
Cariboo
5-12
A
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-150


533
Cariboo
5-12
B
Sept 10-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


534
Cariboo
5-12
B
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-60


535
Cariboo
5-12
B
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


536
Cariboo
5-12
B
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


537
Cariboo
5-13
A
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-90


538
Cariboo
5-13
A
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-90


539
Cariboo
5-13
B
Sept 10-Sept 30
bull moose
1-150


540
Cariboo
5-13
B
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-90


541
Cariboo
5-13
B
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-150


542
Cariboo
5-13
B
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-150


543
Cariboo
5-13
C
Sept 10-Sept 30
bull moose
1-150


544
Cariboo
5-13
C
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-90


545
Cariboo
5-13
C
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-90


546
Cariboo
5-14

Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


547
Cariboo
5-14

Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


548
Cariboo
5-15
A
Sept 10-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


549
Cariboo
5-15
A
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-60


550
Cariboo
5-15
A
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


551
Cariboo
5-15
A
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


552
Cariboo
5-15
B
Sept 10-Sept 30
bull moose
1-50


553
Cariboo
5-15
B
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-30


554
Cariboo
5-15
B
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-50


555
Cariboo
5-15
B
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


556
Cariboo
5-15
C
Sept 10-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


557
Cariboo
5-15
C
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-60


558
Cariboo
5-15
C
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


559
Cariboo
5-15
C
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


560
Cariboo
5-15
D
Sept 10-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


561
Cariboo
5-15
D
Oct 1-Oct 14
bull moose
1-60


562
Cariboo
5-15
D
Oct 15-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


563
Cariboo
5-15
D
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


564
Cariboo
5-15
A
Nov 1-Dec 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


565
Cariboo
5-15
B
Nov 1-Dec 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


566
Cariboo
5-15
C
Nov 1-Dec 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


567
Cariboo
5-15
D
Nov 1-Dec 10
cow or calf moose
1-100


568
Yohetta
5-04
B
Sept 1-Oct 31
adult mountain goat
1-15


569
Yohetta
5-04
E
Sept 1-Oct 31
adult mountain goat
1-10


570
Yohetta
5-04
F
Sept 1-Oct 31
adult mountain goat
1-15


571
Yohetta
5-04
H
Sept 1-Oct 31
adult mountain goat
1-10


572
Yohetta
5-04
J
Sept 1-Oct 31
adult mountain goat
5-20


573
Ottarasko Mountain
5-05
A
Sept 1-Oct 31
adult mountain goat
1-15


574
Niut Mountain
5-05
B
Sept 1-Oct 31
adult mountain goat
1-15


575
Perkins Peak
5-06,5-05
A
Sept 1-Oct 31
adult mountain goat
1-15


576
Cherry Creek
5-06,5-05
B
Sept 1-Oct 31
adult mountain goat
1-15


577
Boss-Deception
5-15
A
Sept 1-Oct 31
adult mountain goat
1-10


578
Eureka
5-15
B
Sept 1-Oct 31
adult mountain goat
1-10


579
Cariboo
5-01

Nov 1-Nov 30
antlerless white-tailed deer
1-250


580
Cariboo
5-02
A
Nov 1-Nov 30
antlerless white-tailed deer
1-250


581
Cariboo
5-02
B
Nov 1-Nov 30
antlerless white-tailed deer
1-250


582
Cariboo
5-02
C
Nov 1-Nov 30
antlerless white-tailed deer
1-250


583
Cariboo
5-02
D
Nov 1-Nov 30
antlerless white-tailed deer
1-250


584
Cariboo
5-13
B
Nov 1-Nov 30
antlerless white-tailed deer
1-250


585
Cariboo
5-14
A
Nov 1-Nov 30
antlerless white-tailed deer
1-250


586
Spatsizi
6-20
A
Aug 15-Aug 31
bull caribou
25-200


587
Spatsizi
6-20
A
Sept 1-Sept 15
bull caribou
25-200


588
Spatsizi
6-20
A
Sept 16-Sept 30
bull caribou
25-200


589
Spatsizi
6-20
A
Oct 1-Oct 15
bull caribou
25-200


590
Atlin
6-25,6-26
A
Aug 15-Oct 15
bull caribou
1-50


591
Skeena
6-04

Nov 1-Nov 15

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-75


592
Francois Lake
6-04
A
Dec 1-Dec 15

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-50


593
Francois Lake
6-04
A
Dec 16-Dec 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-50


594
Francois Lake
6-04
A
Jan 1-Jan 15

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-50


595
Francois Lake
6-04
A
Jan 16-Jan 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-50


596
Francois Lake
6-04
A
Feb 1-Feb 15

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-50


597
Francois Lake
6-04
A
Feb 16-Feb 28

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-50


598
Skeena
6-05,6-06

Nov 1-Nov 15

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-50


599
Skeena
6-08

Nov 1-Nov 15

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-25


600
Skeena
6-09

Nov 1-Nov 15

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-25


601
Smithers
6-01

Oct 1-Oct 19
bull moose
1-150


602
Smithers
6-10
B

Sept 1-Sept 9

Nov 16-Nov 20

bull moose
1-150


603
Smithers
6-30
A

Sept 1-Sept 9

Nov 16-Nov 20

bull moose
1-150


604
Smithers
6-08, 6-09


Sept 1-Sept 9

Nov 16-Nov 20

bull moose
1-150


605
Smithers
6-04, 6-05, 6-06


Sept 1-Sept 9

Nov 16-Nov 20

bull moose
1-150


606
Smithers
6-02

Oct 1-Oct 19
bull moose
1-150


607
Smithers
6-04

Oct 1-Oct 19
bull moose
1-150


608
Smithers
6-03,6-10,6-11
A
Oct 1-Oct 19
bull moose
1-150


609
Smithers
6-05

Oct 1-Oct 19
bull moose
1-150


610
Smithers
6-06

Oct 1-Oct 19
bull moose
1-150


611
Smithers
6-07

Oct 1-Oct 19
bull moose
1-150


612
Smithers
6-08

Oct 1-Oct 19
bull moose
1-150


613
Smithers
6-09

Oct 1-Oct 19
bull moose
1-150


614
Smithers
6-15
A
Oct 1-Oct 19
bull moose
1-150


615
Smithers
6-30
A
Oct 1-Oct 19
bull moose
1-150


616
Smithers
6-01


Sept 10-Oct 19 & Oct 23-Nov 15

bull moose
50-150


617
Smithers
6-02
A

Sept 10-Oct 19 & Oct 23-Nov 15

bull moose
1-100


618
Smithers
6-02
B
Sept 1-Oct 19
bull moose
1-100


618.1
Smithers
6-3, 6-10
A
Sept 10-Nov 15
bull moose
1-150


619
Smithers
6-04

Sept 10-Sept 24
bull moose
1-150


620
Smithers
6-04

Sept 25-Oct 19
bull moose
1-100


621
Smithers
6-04

Oct 20-Nov 15
bull moose
1-150


622
Smithers
6-05

Sept 10-Sept 24
bull moose
1-50


623
Smithers
6-05

Sept 25-Oct 19
bull moose
1-50


624
Smithers
6-05

Oct 20-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


625
Smithers
6-06

Sept 10-Sept 24
bull moose
1-50


626
Smithers
6-06

Sept 25-Oct 19
bull moose
1-50


627
Smithers
6-06

Oct 20-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


628
Smithers
6-07

Sept 10-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


629
Smithers
6-08

Sept 10-Sept 24
bull moose
25-150


630
Smithers
6-08

Sept 25-Oct 19
bull moose
25-150


631
Smithers
6-08

Oct 20-Nov 15
bull moose
25-150


632
Smithers
6-09

Sept 10-Sept 24
bull moose
50-150


633
Smithers
6-09

Sept 25-Oct 19
bull moose
50-200


634
Smithers
6-09

Oct 20-Nov 15
bull moose
50-200


635
Smithers
6-03,6-10,6-11
A
Sept 10-Nov 15
bull moose
1-150


636
Smithers
6-15
A
Sept 10-Nov 15
bull moose
1-50


637
Stikine
6-19
A
Sept 1-Sept 14
bull moose
1-55


638
Stikine
6-19
A
Sept 15-Sept 30
bull moose
1-55


639
Stikine
6-19
A
Oct 1-Oct 15
bull moose
1-55


640
Spatsizi
6-20
A
Aug 15-Oct 15
bull moose
50-150


641
Klappan
6-20,6-17,6-18
B
Sept 15-Sept 30
bull moose
1-75


642
Klappan
6-20,6-17,6-18
B
Oct 1-Oct 15
bull moose
1-75


643
Smithers
6-30
A
Sept 10-Nov 15
bull moose
50-150


644
Tweedsmuir
6-02
B
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


645
Skeena
6-08
A
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


646
Skeena
6-08
B
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-25


647
Skeena
6-08
C
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


648
Skeena
6-08
D
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-25


649
Skeena
6-08
E
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-25


650
Babine Mountain
6-08
F
Sept 10-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-100


651
Skeena
6-09
A
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


652
Skeena
6-09
B
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-100


653
Skeena
6-09
C
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


654
Skeena
6-04,6-09
E
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


655
Skeena
6-09
I
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


656
Skeena
6-09
J
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


657
Skeena
6-09
K
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


658
Skeena
6-09
M
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


659
Skeena
6-09
N
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


660
Skeena
6-03,6-09
O
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


661
Skeena
6-03,6-09
P
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


662
Skeena
6-09
Q
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


663
Skeena
6-09
S
Aug 1-Sept 30
adult mountain goat
1-100


664
Skeena
6-09
T
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


665
Skeena
6-10
A
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-25


666
Skeena
6-10
B
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-25


667
Skeena
6-15
A
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-100


668
Skeena
6-15
B
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


669
Skeena
6-15
G
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-25


670
Skeena
6-15
H
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-25


671
Skeena
6-15
I
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


672
Skeena
6-15
J
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


673
Skeena
6-15
K
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-25


674
Spatsizi
6-19
A
Aug 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-25


675
Spatsizi
6-20
A
Aug 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


676
Spatsizi
6-20
B
Aug 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


677
Spatsizi
6-20
C
Aug 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


678
Mount Edziza
6-21
A
Aug 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


679
Stikine River
6-21,6-22
C
Aug 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


680
Stikine River
6-22
A
Aug 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-25


681
Atlin
6-25,6-26,6-27
C
Aug 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-150


682
Tagish Highland
6-27,6-28
A
Aug 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-25


683
Tagish Highland
6-27
B
Aug 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-25


684
Tagish Highland
6-28
B
Aug 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-25


685
Skeena
6-30
C
Aug 1-Feb 28
adult mountain goat
1-50


686
Skeena
6-04
A
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


687
Skeena
6-04
A
Dec 16-Dec 31
antlerless elk
1-50


688
Skeena
6-04
A
Jan 1-Jan 15
antlerless elk
1-50


689
Skeena
6-04
A
Jan 16-Jan 31
antlerless elk
1-50


690
Skeena
6-04
A
Feb 1-Feb 15
antlerless elk
1-50


691
Skeena
6-04
A
Feb 16-Mar 1
antlerless elk
1-50


692
Skeena
6-08
A
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


693
Skeena
6-08
A
Dec 16-Dec 31
antlerless elk
1-50


694
Skeena
6-08
A
Jan 1-Jan 15
antlerless elk
1-50


695
Skeena
6-08
A
Jan 16-Jan 31
antlerless elk
1-50


696
Skeena
6-08
A
Feb 1-Feb 15
antlerless elk
1-50


697
Skeena
6-08
A
Feb 16-Mar 1
antlerless elk
1-50


698
Skeena
6-09
A
Dec 1-Dec 15
antlerless elk
1-50


699
Skeena
6-09
A
Dec 16-Dec 31
antlerless elk
1-50


700
Skeena
6-09
A
Jan 1-Jan 15
antlerless elk
1-50


701
Skeena
6-09
A
Jan 16-Jan 31
antlerless elk
1-50


702
Skeena
6-09
A
Feb 1-Feb 15
antlerless elk
1-50


703
Skeena
6-09
A
Feb 16-Mar 1
antlerless elk
1-50


704
Skeena
6-04
A
Dec 1-Dec 15
bull elk
1-50


705
Skeena
6-04
A
Dec 16-Dec 31
bull elk
1-50


706
Skeena
6-04
A
Jan 1-Jan 15
bull elk
1-50


707
Skeena
6-04
A
Jan 16-Jan 31
bull elk
1-50


708
Skeena
6-04
A
Feb 1-Feb 15
bull elk
1-50


709
Skeena
6-04
A
Feb 16-Mar 1
bull elk
1-50


710
Skeena
6-08
A
Dec 1-Dec 15
bull elk
1-50


711
Skeena
6-08
A
Dec 16-Dec 31
bull elk
1-50


712
Skeena
6-08
A
Jan 1-Jan 15
bull elk
1-50


713
Skeena
6-08
A
Jan 16-Jan 31
bull elk
1-50


714
Skeena
6-08
A
Feb 1-Feb 15
bull elk
1-50


715
Skeena
6-08
A
Feb 16-Mar 1
bull elk
1-50


716
Skeena
6-09
A
Dec 1-Dec 15
bull elk
1-50


717
Skeena
6-09
A
Dec 16-Dec 31
bull elk
1-50


718
Skeena
6-09
A
Jan 1-Jan 15
bull elk
1-50


719
Skeena
6-09
A
Jan 16-Jan 31
bull elk
1-50


720
Skeena
6-09
A
Feb 1-Feb 15
bull elk
1-50


721
Skeena
6-09
A
Feb 16-Mar 1
bull elk
1-50


722
Peace
7-20

Dec 1-Dec 20

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-50


723
Peace
7-21

Dec 1-Dec 20

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-50


724
Peace
7-32

Dec 1-Dec 20

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-50


725
Peace
7-33

Dec 1-Dec 20

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-100


726
Peace
7-34

Dec 1-Dec 20

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-100


727
Peace
7-35

Dec 1-Dec 20

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-50


728
Peace
7-45

Dec 1-Dec 20

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-50


729
Peace
7-46

Dec 1-Dec 20

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-50


730
Liard
7-42,7-57
C
Oct 1-Oct 15
bison — either sex
1-50


731
Liard
7-42,7-57
C
Oct 16-Oct 31
bison — either sex
1-50


732
Liard
7-42,7-57
C
Nov 1-Nov 15
bison — either sex
1-50


733
Liard
7-42,7-57
C
Nov 16-Nov 30
bison — either sex
1-50


734
Liard
7-42,7-57
C
Dec 1-Dec 15
bison — either sex
1-50


735
Liard
7-42,7-57
C
Dec 16-Dec 31
bison — either sex
1-50


736
Liard
7-42,7-57
C
Jan 1-Jan 15
bison — either sex
1-50


737
Liard
7-42,7-57
C
Jan 16-Jan 31
bison — either sex
1-50


738
Liard
7-42,7-57,7-58
D
Oct 1-Oct 15
bison — either sex
1-50


739
Liard
7-42,7-57,7-58
D
Oct 16-Oct 31
bison — either sex
1-50


740
Liard
7-42,7-57,7-58
D
Nov 5-Nov 19
bison — either sex
1-50


741
Liard
7-42,7-57,7-58
D
Nov 20-Dec 5
bison — either sex
1-50


742
Liard
7-42,7-57,7-58
D
Dec 6-Dec 20
bison — either sex
1-50


743
Liard
7-42,7-57,7-58
D
Jan 1-Jan 15
bison — either sex
1-50


744
Liard
7-42,7-57,7-58
D
Jan 16-Jan 31
bison — either sex
1-50


745
Edozadelly
7-39
D
Aug 15-Oct 15
bull caribou
1-10


746
Prince George
7-02


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-15


747
Prince George
7-03


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-20


748
Prince George
7-04


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-20


749
Prince George
7-05


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-20


750
Prince George
7-06


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-25


751
Prince George
7-07


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-135


752
Prince George
7-08


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-75


753
Prince George
7-09


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-95


754
Prince George
7-10


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-160


755
Prince George
7-11


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-130


756
Prince George
7-12


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-340


757
Prince George
7-13


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-150


758
Prince George
7-14


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-80


759
Prince George
7-15


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-200


760
Prince George
7-17


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-35


761
Prince George
7-18


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-10


762
Prince George
7-24


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-125


763
Prince George
7-25


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-95


764
Prince George
7-26


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-40


765
Prince George
7-27


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-25


766
Prince George
7-28


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-40


767
Prince George
7-29


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-65


768
Prince George
7-30


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-25


769
Prince George
7-38


The first Saturday in October and the following 9 days

calf moose
1-40


770
Prince George
7-02

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-45


771
Prince George
7-03

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-65


772
Prince George
7-04

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-45


773
Prince George
7-05

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-65


774
Prince George
7-06

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-70


775
Prince George
7-07

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-125


776
Prince George
7-08

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-70


777
Prince George
7-09

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-70


778
Prince George
7-10

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-70


779
Prince George
7-11

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-65


780
Prince George
7-12
A
Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-35


781
Prince George
7-12
B
Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-35


782
Prince George
7-13

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-50


783
Prince George
7-14

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-90


784
Prince George
7-15

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-65


785
Prince George
7-17

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-75


786
Prince George
7-18

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-60


787
Prince George
7-24

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-65


788
Prince George
7-25

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-65


789
Prince George
7-26

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-60


790
Prince George
7-27

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-60


791
Prince George
7-28

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-65


792
Prince George
7-29

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-65


793
Prince George
7-30

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-50


794
Prince George
7-38

Oct 10-Oct 25
cow or calf moose
1-65


795
Prince George
7-02

Sept 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-75


796
Prince George
7-03

Sept 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-75


797
Prince George
7-04

Sept 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-75


798
Prince George
7-05

Sept 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-75


799
Prince George
7-06

Sept 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-95


800
Prince George
7-07

Sept 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-190


801
Prince George
7-08

Sept 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-150


802
Prince George
7-09

Sept 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-150


803
Prince George
7-10

Sept 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-190


804
Prince George
7-11

Sept 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-190


805
Prince George
7-12
A
Sept 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-110


806
Prince George
7-12
B
Sept 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-110


807
Prince George
7-13

Sept 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-150


808
Prince George
7-14

Sept 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-125


809
Prince George
7-15

Sept 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-150


810
Prince George
7-16
A
Aug 15-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


811
Prince George
7-16
B
Aug 15-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


812
Prince George
7-16
C
Aug 15-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


813
Prince George
7-16
A
Oct 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-100


814
Prince George
7-16
B
Oct 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-100


815
Prince George
7-16
C
Oct 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-100


816
Prince George
7-17

Sept 10-Nov 5
bull moose
1-75


817
Prince George
7-18

Aug 15-Nov 5
bull moose
1-75


818
Prince George
7-23
A
Aug 15-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


819
Prince George
7-23
B
Aug 15-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


820
Prince George
7-23
C
Aug 15-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


821
Prince George
7-23
D
Aug 15-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


822
Prince George
7-23
E
Aug 15-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


823
Prince George
7-23
A
Oct 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-100


824
Prince George
7-23
B
Oct 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-100


825
Prince George
7-23
C
Oct 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-100


826
Prince George
7-23
D
Oct 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-100


827
Prince George
7-23
E
Oct 1-Nov 5
bull moose
1-100


828
Prince George
7-24

Sept 10-Nov 5
bull moose
1-200


829
Prince George
7-25

Sept 10-Nov 5
bull moose
1-110


830
Prince George
7-26

Sept 10-Nov 5
bull moose
1-190


831
Prince George
7-27

Sept 10-Nov 5
bull moose
1-150


832
Prince George
7-28

Sept 10-Nov 5
bull moose
1-225


833
Prince George
7-29

Sept 10-Nov 5
bull moose
1-110


834
Prince George
7-30

Sept 10-Nov 5
bull moose
1-75


835
Prince George
7-37

Aug 15-Oct 9
bull moose
1-50


836
Prince George
7-37

Oct 10-Nov 5
bull moose
1-50


837
Prince George
7-38

Aug 15-Oct 9
bull moose
1-50


838
Prince George
7-38

Oct 10-Nov 5
bull moose
1-50


839
Prince George
7-39

Aug 15-Oct 9
bull moose
1-50


840
Prince George
7-39

Oct 10-Nov 5
bull moose
1-50


841
Prince George
7-40

Aug 15-Oct 9
bull moose
1-50


842
Prince George
7-40

Oct 10-Nov 5
bull moose
1-50


843
Prince George
7-41

Aug 15-Oct 9
bull moose
1-50


844
Prince George
7-41

Oct 10-Nov 5
bull moose
1-50


845
South Peace
7-19

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-100


846
South Peace
7-19

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


847
South Peace
7-19

Oct 16-Oct 24 & Oct 27-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


848
South Peace
7-19

Nov 1-Nov 9 & Nov 12-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


849
South Peace
7-20

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-300


850
South Peace
7-20

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-300


851
South Peace
7-20

Oct 16-Oct 24 & Oct 27-Oct 31
bull moose
1-300


852
South Peace
7-20

Nov 1-Nov 9 & Nov 12-Nov 15
bull moose
1-300


853
South Peace
7-21

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-250


854
South Peace
7-21

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-250


855
South Peace
7-21

Oct 16-Oct 24 & Oct 27-Oct 31
bull moose
1-250


856
South Peace
7-21

Nov 1-Nov 9 & Nov 12-Nov 15
bull moose
1-250


857
South Peace
7-22

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-150


858
South Peace
7-22

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-150


859
South Peace
7-22

Oct 16-Oct 24 & Oct 27-Oct 31
bull moose
1-150


860
South Peace
7-22

Nov 1-Nov 9 & Nov 12-Nov 15
bull moose
1-150


861
South Peace
7-31
A
Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-200


862
South Peace
7-31
A
Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-200


863
South Peace
7-31
A
Oct 16-Oct 24 & Oct 27-Oct 31
bull moose
1-200


864
South Peace
7-31
A
Nov 1-Nov 9 & Nov 12-Nov 15
bull moose
1-200


865
North Peace
7-32
A
Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-200


866
North Peace
7-32
A
Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-200


867
North Peace
7-32
A
Oct 16-Oct 31
bull moose
1-200


868
North Peace
7-32
A
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-200


869
North Peace
7-32
B
Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-200


870
North Peace
7-32
B
Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-200


871
North Peace
7-32
B
Oct 16-Oct 31
bull moose
1-200


872
North Peace
7-32
B
Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-200


873
North Peace
7-33

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-350


874
North Peace
7-33

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-350


875
North Peace
7-33

Oct 16-Oct 24 & Oct 27-Oct 31
bull moose
1-350


876
North Peace
7-33

Nov 1-Nov 9 & Nov 12-Nov 15
bull moose
1-350


877
North Peace
7-34

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-200


878
North Peace
7-34

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-200


879
North Peace
7-34

Oct 16-Oct 31
bull moose
1-200


880
North Peace
7-34

Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-200


881
North Peace
7-35

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-200


882
North Peace
7-35

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-200


883
North Peace
7-35

Oct 16-Oct 24 & Oct 27-Oct 31
bull moose
1-200


884
North Peace
7-35

Nov 1-Nov 9 & Nov 12-Nov 15
bull moose
1-200


885
North Peace
7-44

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-150


886
North Peace
7-44

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-150


887
North Peace
7-44

Oct 16-Oct 31
bull moose
1-150


888
North Peace
7-44

Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-150


889
North Peace
7-45

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-150


890
North Peace
7-45

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-150


891
North Peace
7-45

Oct 16-Oct 31
bull moose
1-150


892
North Peace
7-45

Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-150


893
Fort Nelson
7-46

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-100


894
Fort Nelson
7-46

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


895
Fort Nelson
7-46

Oct 16-Oct 24 & Oct 27-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


896
Fort Nelson
7-46

Nov 1-Nov 9 & Nov 12-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


897
Fort Nelson
7-47

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-100


898
Fort Nelson
7-47

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


899
Fort Nelson
7-47

Oct 16-Oct 24 & Oct 27-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


900
Fort Nelson
7-47

Nov 1-Nov 9 & Nov 12-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


901
Fort Nelson
7-48

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-100


902
Fort Nelson
7-48

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


903
Fort Nelson
7-48

Oct 16-Oct 24 & Oct 27-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


904
Fort Nelson
7-48

Nov 1-Nov 9 & Nov 12-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


905
Fort Nelson
7-49

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-150


906
Fort Nelson
7-49

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-150


907
Fort Nelson
7-49

Oct 16-Oct 24 & Oct 27-Oct 31
bull moose
1-150


908
Fort Nelson
7-49

Nov 1-Nov 9 & Nov 12-Nov 15
bull moose
1-150


909
Fort Nelson
7-55

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-100


910
Fort Nelson
7-55

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


911
Fort Nelson
7-55

Oct 16-Oct 24 & Oct 27-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


912
Fort Nelson
7-55

Nov 1-Nov 9 & Nov 12-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


913
Fort Nelson
7-56

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-100


914
Fort Nelson
7-56

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


915
Fort Nelson
7-56

Oct 16-Oct 31
bull moose
1-100


916
Fort Nelson
7-56

Nov 1-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


917
Northeast Rockies
7-58

Sept 1-Sept 15
bull moose
1-100


918
Northeast Rockies
7-58

Sept 16-Sept 30
bull moose
1-100


919
Northeast Rockies
7-58

Oct 16-Nov 15
bull moose
1-100


920
Kinbasket
7-02
B
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-5


921
Kinbasket
7-02
C
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-10


922
Kinbasket
7-02
D
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-10


923
Kinbasket
7-02
F
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-10


924
Kinbasket
7-02
G
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-5


925
Kinbasket
7-02
I
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-5


926
Holmes River
7-03
A
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-10


927
Holmes River
7-03
B
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-5


928
Holmes River
7-03
C
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-5


929
Holmes River
7-03
D
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-5


930
Holmes River
7-03
E
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-5


931
Holmes River
7-03
F
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-5


932
Holmes River
7-03
G
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-5


933
Holmes River
7-03
H
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-10


934
Holmes River
7-03
I
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-5


935
Holmes River
7-03
J
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-5


936
Holmes River
7-03
K
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-5


937
Holmes River
7-03
L
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-10


938
Castle Creek
7-04
A
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-10


939
Doré River
7-04
B
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-20


940
McLennan River
7-04
C
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-15


941
Kiwa Creek
7-04
D
Sept 1-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-15


942
Peace River
7-19
B
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


943
Peace River
7-19
C
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


944
Peace River
7-19
D
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-100


945
Peace River
7-19
E
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


946
Peace River
7-19
F
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


947
Peace River
7-19
G
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-100


948
Peace River
7-19,7-21
A
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


949
Peace River
7-19,7-21
B
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


950
Peace River
7-21
C
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


951
Peace River
7-21
D
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


952
Peace River
7-21
E
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


953
Peace River
7-21,7-22
A
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


954
Peace River
7-21,7-22
B
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


955
Peace River
7-21,7-22
K
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


956
Peace River
7-31

Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-75


957
Peace River
7-36
A
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


958
Peace River
7-42
C
Aug 15-Nov 15
adult mountain goat
1-75


959
Kluachesi
7-50
A
Aug 25-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


960
Yash-Yedhe
7-51
A
Aug 25-Oct 15
adult mountain goat
1-50


961
Prince George
7-02,7-03,7-04,7-05

Nov 15-Dec 14
antlerless elk
1-50


962
Prince George
7-02,7-03,7-04,7-05

Dec 15-Jan 14
antlerless elk
1-50


963
Prince George
7-02,7-03,7-04,7-05

Jan 15-Feb 14
antlerless elk
1-50


964
Prince George
7-07

Nov 15-Dec 14
antlerless elk
1-50


965
Prince George
7-07

Dec 15-Jan 14
antlerless elk
1-50


966
Prince George
7-07

Jan 15-Feb 14
antlerless elk
1-50


967
Prince George
7-08

Nov 15-Dec 14
antlerless elk
1-50


968
Prince George
7-08

Dec 15-Jan 14
antlerless elk
1-50


969
Prince George
7-08

Jan 15-Feb 14
antlerless elk
1-50


970
Prince George
7-09

Nov 15-Dec 14
antlerless elk
1-50


971
Prince George
7-09

Dec 15-Jan 14
antlerless elk
1-50


972
Prince George
7-09

Jan 15-Feb 14
antlerless elk
1-50


973
Prince George
7-10

Nov 15-Dec 14
antlerless elk
1-50


974
Prince George
7-10

Dec 15-Jan 14
antlerless elk
1-50


975
Prince George
7-10

Jan 15-Feb 14
antlerless elk
1-50


976
Prince George
7-12

Nov 15-Dec 14
antlerless elk
1-50


977
Prince George
7-12

Dec 15-Jan 14
antlerless elk
1-50


978
Prince George
7-12

Jan 15-Feb 28
antlerless elk
1-50


979
Prince George
7-13

Nov 15-Dec 14
antlerless elk
1-50


980
Prince George
7-13

Dec 15-Jan 14
antlerless elk
1-50


981
Prince George
7-13

Jan 15-Feb 28
antlerless elk
1-50


982
Prince George
7-14

Nov 15-Dec 14
antlerless elk
1-50


983
Prince George
7-14

Dec 15-Jan 14
antlerless elk
1-50


984
Prince George
7-14

Jan 15-Feb 28
antlerless elk
1-50


985
Prince George
7-15

Nov 15-Dec 14
antlerless elk
1-50


986
Prince George
7-15

Dec 15-Jan 14
antlerless elk
1-50


987
Prince George
7-15

Jan 15-Feb 14
antlerless elk
1-50


988
Prince George
7-17

Nov 15-Dec 14
antlerless elk
1-50


989
Prince George
7-17

Dec 15-Jan 14
antlerless elk
1-50


990
Prince George
7-17

Jan 15-Feb 14
antlerless elk
1-50


991
Prince George
7-24

Nov 15-Dec 14
antlerless elk
1-50


992
Prince George
7-24

Dec 15-Jan 14
antlerless elk
1-50


993
Prince George
7-24

Jan 15-Feb 14
antlerless elk
1-50


994
Prince George
7-25

Nov 15-Dec 14
antlerless elk
1-10


995
Prince George
7-25

Dec 15-Jan 14
antlerless elk
1-10


996
Prince George
7-25

Jan 15-Feb 28
antlerless elk
1-10


997
Peace
7-20

Dec 1-Feb 28
antlerless elk
50-150


998
Peace
7-21

Dec 1-Feb 28
antlerless elk
50-150


999
Peace
7-32

Dec 1-Feb 28
antlerless elk
50-150


1000
Peace
7-33

Dec 1-Feb 28
antlerless elk
200-800


1001
Peace
7-34

Dec 1-Feb 28
antlerless elk
200-800


1002
Peace
7-35

Dec 1-Feb 28
antlerless elk
200-600


1003
Peace
7-45

Dec 1-Feb 28
antlerless elk
1-50


1004
Peace
7-46

Dec 1-Feb 28
antlerless elk
1-50


1005
Toad River
7-51,7-54
A
Dec 1-Feb 28
antlerless elk
1-200


1006
Tuchodi
7-42,7-50
A
Aug 20-Oct 31
antlerless elk
1-150


1007

Peace River

*



7-20,7-21,7-32,7-33,7-34,7-35,7-45,7-46

A
Dec 1-Feb 28
elk — either sex
50-500


1008
Okanagan

8-01

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-240


1009
Okanagan
8-01
A
Oct 1-Oct 15

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-100


1010
Okanagan

8-02

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-140


1011
Okanagan

8-03

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-40


1012
Okanagan

8-04

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-160


1013
Okanagan

8-05

*


A
Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-200


1014
Okanagan

8-05

*


B
Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-120


1015
Okanagan

8-06

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-120


1016
Okanagan

8-07

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-80


1017
Okanagan

8-08

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-260


1018
Okanagan

8-09

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-100


1019
Okanagan
8-09
B
Oct 1-Oct 15

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-160


1020
Okanagan
8-09
C
Oct 1-Oct 15

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-100


1021
Okanagan

8-10

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-100


1022
Okanagan

8-11

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-100


1023
Okanagan

8-12

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-300


1024
Okanagan

8-14

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-320


1025
Okanagan

8-15

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-220


1026
Okanagan

8-22

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-80


1027
Okanagan

8-23

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-160


1028
Okanagan

8-24

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-80


1029
Okanagan

8-25

*



Oct 20-Oct 31

antlerless mule (black-tailed) deer

1-60


1030
Princeton
8-04,8-05,8-06
A
Sept 10-Sept 30
antlerless elk
1-50


1031
Princeton
8-04,8-05,8-06
A
Oct 1-Oct 20
antlerless elk
1-50


1032
Christian Valley
8-12,8-14
A
Nov 10-Dec 15
antlerless elk
5-50


1033
Christian Valley
8-12,8-14
A
Jan 15-Feb 28
antlerless elk
5-50


1034
Okanagan
8-01

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-20


1035
Okanagan
8-01

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-20


1036
Okanagan
8-02,8-07

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-50


1037
Okanagan
8-02,8-07

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-50


1038
Okanagan
8-03,8-04

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-20


1039
Okanagan
8-03,8-04

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-20


1040
Okanagan
8-05

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-40


1041
Okanagan
8-05

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-40


1042
Okanagan
8-06

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-30


1043
Okanagan
8-06

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-30


1044
Okanagan
8-08

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-40


1045
Okanagan
8-08

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-40


1046
Okanagan
8-09

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-30


1047
Okanagan
8-09

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-30


1048
Okanagan
8-10,8-22

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-50


1049
Okanagan
8-10,8-22

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-50


1050
Okanagan
8-11

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-20


1051
Okanagan
8-11

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-20


1052
Okanagan
8-12

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-50


1053
Okanagan
8-12

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-50


1054
Okanagan
8-13,8-14

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-50


1055
Okanagan
8-13,8-14

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-50


1056
Okanagan
8-15

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-20


1057
Okanagan
8-15

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-20


1058
Okanagan
8-21

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-10


1059
Okanagan
8-21

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-10


1060
Okanagan
8-23

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-10


1061
Okanagan
8-23

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-10


1062
Okanagan
8-24

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-10


1063
Okanagan
8-24

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-10


1064
Okanagan
8-25

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-10


1065
Okanagan
8-25

Nov 1-Nov 30
bull moose
1-10


1066
Okanagan
8-26

Oct 1-Oct 31
bull moose
1-50


1067
Okanagan
8-26

Nov 10-Nov 30
bull moose
1-50


1068
Okanagan
8-08

Nov 1-Nov 30
cow or calf moose
1-20


1069
Okanagan
8-10

Nov 1-Nov 30
cow or calf moose
1-20


1070
Okanagan
8-11

Nov 1-Nov 30
cow or calf moose
1-20


1071
Okanagan
8-12

Nov 1-Nov 30
cow or calf moose
1-20


1072
Okanagan
8-23

Nov 1-Nov 30
cow or calf moose
1-20


1073
Similkameen
8-02,8-07

Nov 1-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-10


1074
Central Okanagan
8-09
A
Sept 20-Nov 30
adult mountain goat
1-20


1075
Ashnola
8-03

Sept 1-Sept 30
bighorn ram mountain sheep
1-20


1076
Okanagan
8-01

Sept 1-Sept 30
bighorn ram mountain sheep
1-20


1077
Okanagan
8-09
A
Sept 1-Sept 30
bighorn ram mountain sheep
1-20


1078
Granby
8-15
F
Sept 1-Sept 30
bighorn ram mountain sheep
1-20


1079
Spatsizi Combo Hunt
6-20
A
Aug 15-Oct 15

bull caribou

bull moose


1-20

1-20



1080
Haida Gwaii
6-12,6-13

Apr 1-June 30 & Sept 1-Nov 30
black bear
1-10







*.

Youth only





Schedule II


[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2001, s. 5; am. B.C. Regs. 166/2001, App. s. 3;
292/2001, App. 2; 68/2002, s. 11; 133/2002, s. 4; 169/2003, s. 15;
166/2004, s. 10; 166/2005, s. 8; 92/2006, s. 8; 102/2007, s. 7;
236/2007; 79/2008, s. 7; 163/2008, App. 6, s. 2; 138/2009, s. 3;
143/2009, App. 5, s. 7; 251/2009, s. 3; 77/2010, App. 2, s. 5; 301/2010,
App. 3, s. 2; 48/2011, ss. (c) and (d); 29/2012, s. 2; 80/2012, App. 3,
s. 3; 3/2014, s. 1 (b); 39/2014, s. (f); 95/2015, App. 1, s. 2; 90/2016,
ss. (d) and (e); 25/2017, App. 2, s. 2; 239/2017, App. 2, s. 5; 66/2018,
App. 2, s. 5; 176/2018, App. 1, s. 4; 84/2020, App. 2, s. 5; 169/2020,
App. 4; 220/2020, App. 2, s. 2; 119/2022, App. 2, s. 5; 112/2023, App.
2, s. 2.]


Limited Entry Hunting Areas Maps



Maps are exempt from publication. They may be inspected at the offices
of the Fish and Wildlife Branch, Ministry of Forests, 2975 Jutland
Road, Victoria, B.C., during normal business hours.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Wildlife Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 488, ss. 16, 108 and 109.]



