







B.C. Reg. 4/2001

O.C. 5/2001


Deposited January 12, 2001

effective February 15, 2001





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Law and Equity Act


Notice to Mediate (General) Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2002 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"action"
has the same meaning as in Rule 1-1 (1) of the Supreme Court Civil
Rules;


"court"
means the Supreme Court of British Columbia;



"date of trial"

means the date set for trial in a notice of trial filed under the
Supreme Court Civil Rules;


"deliver"
means, in relation to a delivery under this regulation,




(a)

personally deliver,




(b)

mail by ordinary mail to the mailing address the intended recipient
has provided for such deliveries,




(c)

transmit by fax to the fax number the intended recipient has provided
for such deliveries, or




(d)

transmit by email to the email address the intended recipient has
provided for such deliveries;


"insurer"
means an insurer, as defined in the

Financial Institutions Act

, that




(a)

has provided a policy of insurance to a party in an action to which
this regulation applies in relation to matters or property in issue in
that action, and




(b)

under that policy, is obligated to indemnify the party for liability
imposed on the party in the action,


and includes a surety of such a party in circumstances in which a
claim has been made on a surety bond related to the matters in issue
in that action;


"mediation"
means a collaborative process in which two or more parties meet and
attempt, with the assistance of a mediator, to resolve issues in
dispute between them;



"mediation session"

means a meeting between two or more parties to an action during which
they are engaged in mediation;


"mediator"
means a neutral and impartial facilitator with no decision making
power who assists parties in negotiating a mutually acceptable
settlement of issues in dispute between them;



"participant"

means a party to an action who has not been exempted, under section 23
(c), from attending the mediation session;


"party"
, in respect of an action to which this regulation applies, includes
an insurer of a party of record to the action;



"roster organization"

means any body designated by the Attorney General to select mediators
for the purposes of this regulation;



"scheduled pre-mediation conference"

means a pre-mediation conference in relation to which the mediator has
given notice under section 14;


"serve"
has the same meaning as in the Supreme Court Civil Rules.

[am. B.C. Reg. 159/2010, s. 1.]





Application




2


This regulation does not apply to




(a)

family law proceedings,




(b)

any action brought under the

Judicial Review Procedure Act

,




(c)

claims for compensation for physical or sexual abuse,




(d)

any action to which the Notice to Mediate Regulation, B.C.
Reg. 127/98, applies,




(e)

any action to which the Notice to Mediate (Residential Construction)
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 152/99, applies, and




(f)

any action to which the Education Mediation Regulation,
B.C. Reg. 250/2000, applies.






Initiating mediation




3


Subject to section 4, any party to an action may initiate mediation in
the action by serving a Notice to Mediate in Form 1 on every other
party to that action.

[en. B.C. Reg. 77/2013, s. (a).]





Not more than one mediation under this regulation in any action




4


Unless the court otherwise orders, not more than one mediation may be
initiated under this regulation in relation to any action.






When notice to mediate must be served or delivered




5


Unless the court orders otherwise, a Notice to Mediate may be served
or delivered under section 3 no earlier than 60 days after the filing
of the first response to civil claim in the action and no later than
120 days before the date of trial.

[am. B.C. Reg. 159/2010, s. 3.]





Appointment of mediator




6


The participants must jointly appoint a mutually acceptable mediator,




(a)

if there are 4 or fewer parties to the action, within 14 days after
the Notice to Mediate has been served on all parties, or




(b)

if there are 5 or more parties to the action, within 21 days after the
Notice to Mediate has been served on all parties.

[am. B.C. Reg. 159/2010, s. 4.]





Application to roster organization




7


If the participants do not jointly appoint a mutually acceptable
mediator within the time required by section 6, any participant
may apply to a roster organization for an appointment of a mediator.






Roster organization's appointment procedure




8


The following procedure applies if an application to a roster
organization is made under section 7:




(a)

the roster organization must, within 7 days after receiving the
application, communicate to all participants an identical list of
possible mediators containing at least 6 names;




(b)

each participant, within 7 days after receipt of the list referred to
in paragraph (a),




(i)

may delete from the list up to 2 names to which the participant
objects,




(ii)

must number the remaining names on the list in order of preference,
and




(iii)

must deliver the amended list to the roster organization;




(c)

if a participant does not deliver the amended list within the time
referred to in paragraph (b), the participant is deemed to have
accepted all of the names;




(d)

within 7 days after the expiry of the 7 day period referred to in
paragraph (b), the roster organization must select the mediator from
the remaining names on the list or, if no names remain on that list,
from any available mediators, whether or not the selected mediator was
included on the original list provided under paragraph (a), taking
into account




(i)

the order of preference indicated by the participants on the returned
lists,




(ii)

the need for the mediator to be neutral and independent,




(iii)

the qualifications of the mediator,




(iv)

the mediator's fees,




(v)

the mediator's availability,




(vi)

the nature of the dispute, and




(vii)

any other consideration likely to result in the selection of an
impartial, competent and effective mediator.






Notification of mediator




9


Promptly after a roster organization selects the mediator, the roster
organization must notify the participants in writing of that
selection.






Deemed date of appointment of mediator




10


The mediator selected by a roster organization is deemed to be
appointed by the participants on the date that the notice is sent
under section 9.






Replacement of appointed mediator




11


If the mediator selected by the roster organization under section 8
(d) is unable or unwilling to act as mediator, the selected mediator
or any participant may so notify the roster organization and the
roster organization must, within 7 days after receiving that notice,
select a new mediator in accordance with section 8 (d).






When pre-mediation conference must be held




12


The mediator must hold a pre-mediation conference if, in the
mediator's opinion, the action is sufficiently complex to warrant it.






Pre-mediation conference




13


At a pre-mediation conference, the mediator must endeavour to have the
participants consider all organizational matters including the
following:




(a)

whether the pleadings are final and complete;




(b)

the issues that are to be dealt with during the mediation process;




(c)

pre-mediation exchange of information;




(d)

exchange of documents;




(e)

obtaining and exchanging expert reports;




(f)

scheduling;




(g)

time limits.






Notice of pre-mediation conference




14


The mediator must give notice of the pre-mediation conference to all
parties.






Participants must attend pre-mediation conference and mediation
session




15


Unless relieved under section 22 or 23 (c) of the obligation to
attend,




(a)

each party who receives a notice under section 14 must participate in
the pre-mediation conference, and




(b)

each party to the action must engage in mediation at a mediation
session in relation to the action.






Attendance by lawyer or representative




16


Despite section 15 but subject to section 20, a party referred to in
section 15 may




(a)

attend a pre-mediation conference by lawyer, or




(b)

attend one or both of a pre-mediation conference and a mediation
session by representative if




(i)

the party is under legal disability and the representative is that
party's litigation guardian,




(ii)

the party is suffering from a mental or physical injury or impairment
sufficient to limit the party's effective participation in mediation,




(iii)

the party is not an individual, or




(iv)

the party is a resident of a jurisdiction other than British Columbia
and will not be in British Columbia at the time of the pre-mediation
conference or the mediation session, as the case may be.






Representative may be accompanied by a lawyer




17


A party or representative who attends a pre-mediation conference or a
mediation session may be accompanied by a lawyer.






Other persons may attend with consent




18


Any other person may attend a pre-mediation conference or a mediation
session if that attendance is with the consent of all participants.






Attendance by communications medium




19


A person entitled or required to attend a pre-mediation conference may
attend that conference by telephone or other communications medium if
the person is a resident of a jurisdiction other than British Columbia
and will not be in British Columbia at the time of the conference.






Qualifications of representative




20


A representative who attends a mediation session in the place of a
party referred to in section 16 (b) must




(a)

be familiar with all relevant facts on which the participant, on whose
behalf the representative attends, intends to rely, and




(b)

have full authority to settle, or have access at the earliest
practicable opportunity to a person who has, or to a group of persons
who collectively have, full authority to settle, on behalf of that
participant.






Exemption if previous mediation




21


Parties to an action need not attend a pre-mediation conference or a
mediation session if all of the parties to the action have already
been involved in a mediation session in relation to the matters in
issue in that action.






Other exemptions




22


A party need not attend a pre-mediation conference or a mediation
session if




(a)

the party is exempted from attending the pre-mediation conference or
the mediation session, as the case may be, under section 23 (c), or




(b)

the participants agree that the party need not attend the
pre-mediation conference or the mediation session, as the case may be,
and that agreement is confirmed by the mediator in writing.






Applications to court




23


On an application, the court may direct that




(a)

the mediation proceed at the time or times and on the terms and
conditions, if any, that the court considers appropriate,




(b)

the mediation be postponed to a later date on the terms and
conditions, if any, that the court considers appropriate, or




(c)

one or more of the parties is exempt from attending one or both of a
pre-mediation conference and a mediation session if in the court's
opinion it is materially impracticable or unfair to require the party
to attend.






Scheduling of mediation session




24


A mediation session must occur within 60 days after the appointment of
the mediator but not later than 7 days before the date of trial unless
a later specified date




(a)

is agreed on by all participants and that agreement is confirmed by
the mediator in writing, or




(b)

is ordered by the court.






Court may postpone mediation session




25


On an application for an order under section 24 (b), the court




(a)

must take into account all of the circumstances, including




(i)

whether a party intends to bring a motion for summary judgment,
summary trial or for a special case,




(ii)

whether the mediation will be more likely to succeed if it is
postponed to allow the participants to acquire more information, and




(iii)

any other circumstances the court considers appropriate, and




(b)

may make any order referred to in section 23.






Pre-mediation exchange of information




26


At least 14 days before the mediation session is to be held in
relation to an action, each participant must deliver to the mediator a
Statement of Facts and Issues in Form 2 setting out the factual
and legal basis for the party's claim or opposition to the relief
sought in the action.






Mediator must distribute statements




27


Promptly after receipt of all of the Statements of Facts and Issues
required to be delivered under section 26, the mediator must send
each participant's Statement to each of the other participants.






Fee declaration




28


The participants must complete and sign a fee declaration in
accordance with section 29,




(a)

if a pre-mediation conference is held in relation to the action,
before or at the pre-mediation conference, or




(b)

in any other case, before or at the mediation session.






Form of fee declaration




29

(1)


A fee declaration under section 28 must be in Form 3 and must




(a)

disclose the cost of the mediation services, and




(b)

contain a declaration by the participants as to how the cost of the
mediation will be paid by them.




(2)

The cost of the mediation must be paid equally by the participants.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), if the fee declaration sets out a different
basis on which the cost of the mediation is to be paid by the
participants and is signed by all of those participants, the cost of
the mediation must be paid on the basis set out in the fee
declaration.






Fee declaration binding




30


A fee declaration completed under this regulation is binding on the
participants.






Costs may include mediation cost component




31


Despite section 30, nothing in section 29 or in the fee declaration
completed under this regulation precludes there being included in the
disbursements awarded to a party an amount to compensate for the share
of the cost of the mediation that that party paid under the
declaration.






Conduct of a mediation




32


The mediator may conduct a pre-mediation conference and the mediation
at the location and in any manner the mediator considers appropriate
to assist the participants to reach a resolution that is fair, timely
and cost-effective.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 3.]





Allegation of Default




33

(1)


Any participant who is of the opinion that any other participant has
failed to comply with a provision of this regulation may make
application to the court for an order under section 34.




(2)

Before making application under subsection (1), the participant
bringing the application must serve on each of the other participants




(a)

an Allegation of Default in Form 4 respecting the participant who is
alleged to have failed to comply with a provision of this regulation,
and




(b)

any affidavits in support of the application.

[am. B.C. Reg. 159/2010, s. 5.]





Effect of an Allegation of Default




34

(1)


On an application referred to in section 33 (1), the court may do any
one or more of the following unless the participant in respect of whom
the Allegation of Default is filed satisfies the court that the
default did not occur or that there is a reasonable excuse for the
default:




(a)

adjourn the application and order, on any terms the court considers
appropriate, that




(i)

a scheduled pre-mediation conference occur, or




(ii)

a mediation session occur;




(b)

adjourn the application and order that a participant attend one or
both of a scheduled pre-mediation conference and a mediation session;




(c)

adjourn the application and order that a participant provide to the
mediator and other participants a Statement of Facts and Issues;




(d)

stay the action until the participant in respect of whom the
allegation is filed attends one or both of a scheduled pre-mediation
conference and a mediation session;




(e)

dismiss the action or strike out the response to civil claim and grant
judgment;




(f)

make any order it considers appropriate with respect to costs.




(2)

If the court considers that public disclosure of the Allegation of
Default and related affidavits would be a hardship on a participant,
the court may




(a)

order that the whole or any part of the Allegation of Default and
related affidavits be sealed in an envelope and that no person may
search the sealed documents without an order of the court, or




(b)

make such other order respecting confidentiality of those documents as
the court considers appropriate.

[am. B.C. Reg. 159/2010, s. 6.]





Court may consider allegation in ordering costs




35


The court may consider the existence of an Allegation of Default in
making any order about costs, whether that order is made following
final disposition of the action or otherwise.






Confidentiality and compellability




36

(1)


Subject to sections 37 and 39 and subsections (2) and (3) of this
section, a person must not disclose, or be compelled to disclose, in
any civil, criminal, quasi-criminal, administrative or regulatory
action or proceeding,




(a)

any oral or written information acquired in anticipation of, during or
in connection with a mediation session,




(b)

any opinion disclosed in anticipation of, during or in connection with
a mediation session, or




(c)

any document, offer or admission made in anticipation of, during or in
connection with a mediation session.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply




(a)

in respect of any information, opinion, document, offer or admission
that all of the participants agree in writing may be disclosed,




(b)

to any fee declaration, agreement to mediate or settlement document
made in anticipation of, during or in connection with a mediation
session, or




(c)

to any information that does not identify the participants or the
action and that is disclosed for research or statistical purposes
only.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), if and only to the extent that it is necessary
to do so for the purposes of section 33 or 34, a party may
disclose evidence of any act or failure to act of another party that
is alleged, for the purposes of section 33, to constitute a
failure to comply with a provision of this regulation.






No restriction on otherwise producible information




37


Nothing in this regulation precludes a party from introducing into
evidence in any civil, criminal, quasi-criminal, administrative or
regulatory action or proceeding any information or records produced in
the course of the mediation that are otherwise producible or
compellable in those proceedings.






Concluding a mediation




38


A mediation is concluded when




(a)

all issues are resolved, or




(b)

the mediator terminates the mediation.






Certificate of Completed Mediation




39


When a mediation is concluded, the mediator must deliver a Certificate
of Completed Mediation in Form 5 to each of the participants who
requests one or to their lawyer.

[en. B.C. Reg. 77/2013, s. (b).]



Form 1

[am. B.C. Reg. 159/2010, s. 7.]
No. .............................
.................................... Registry

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF BRITISH COLUMBIA

Between:
Plaintiff(s)
and
Defendant(s)

NOTICE TO MEDIATE

TO:

TAKE NOTICE that this claim is to be mediated in accordance with the
Notice to Mediate (General) Regulation, B.C. Reg. 4/2001.


The parties who have not been exempted from attending the mediation
session must jointly appoint a mutually acceptable mediator,


(a) if there are 4 or fewer parties to the action, within 14 days after
service of this Notice, or


(b) if there are 5 or more parties to the action, within 21 days after
service of this Notice.


Otherwise, any of those parties may apply to a designated roster
organization for appointment of a mediator.


Dated at .............................................., British
Columbia, on .................................., 20.... .

..................................................

Party [
or party's solicitor
]

Party serving this Notice:


Form 2

No. .............................
.................................... Registry

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF BRITISH COLUMBIA

Between:
Plaintiff(s)
and
Defendant(s)

STATEMENT OF FACTS AND ISSUES


PART I


[
To be completed by plaintiff
]

The following relief is sought:

PART II


[
To be completed by plaintiff
]

Basis for seeking relief:

[

Set out briefly the factual and legal basis for the relief that is
sought.

]


PART III


[
To be completed by defendant
]

Basis for opposing relief:

[

Set out briefly the factual and legal basis for opposing the relief
that is sought.

]


This mediation takes place under the Notice to Mediate (General)
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 4/2001.


Dated at .............................................., British
Columbia, on .................................., 20.... .

..................................................

Party [
or party's solicitor
]



Form 3

No. .............................
.................................... Registry

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF BRITISH COLUMBIA

Between:
Plaintiff(s)
and
Defendant(s)

MEDIATION FEE DECLARATION

WHEREAS:

(a) we, or our representatives, are participating in a mediation under
the Notice to Mediate (General) Regulation, B.C. Reg. 4/2001;


(b) the mediator will be
................................................... of
..............................., B.C.


(c) the cost of the mediation services will be $......................
for a completed mediation session, or will be calculated at
$.................... per hour plus necessary disbursements, or will be
calculated as follows:


WE WILL, subject to any agreement reached during mediation, pay the cost
of the mediation services:

1. in equal shares
or
2. as follows:

WE MAKE THIS DECLARATION under the Notice to Mediate (General)
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 4/2001.


Dated at .............................................., British
Columbia, on .................................., 20.... .

..................................................

Party [
or party's solicitor
]

..................................................

Party [
or party's solicitor
]



Form 4

No. .............................
.................................... Registry

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF BRITISH COLUMBIA

Between:
Plaintiff(s)
and
Defendant(s)

ALLEGATION OF DEFAULT


I ALLEGE THAT
................................................................ has
failed to comply with section .......... of the Notice to Mediate
(General) Regulation, B.C. Reg. 4/2001.


THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE ALLEGED DEFAULT are as follows:


[
Set out the circumstances in numbered paragraphs
]


Dated at .............................................., British
Columbia, on .................................., 20.... .

..................................................

Party [
or party's solicitor
]



Form 5

No. .............................
.................................... Registry

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF BRITISH COLUMBIA

Between:
Plaintiff(s)
and
Defendant(s)

CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETED MEDIATION


THIS WILL CERTIFY THAT
................................................................. has
concluded a mediation in this matter in accordance with the Notice to
Mediate (General) Regulation, B.C. Reg. 4/2001, and that

[ ] all issues have been resolved.

[ ] the mediator has terminated the mediation, and

[ ] some issues have been resolved, or
[ ] no issues have been resolved.

Dated at .............................................., British
Columbia, on .................................., 20.... .

..................................................
Mediator

Name: .................................................


Address: ..................................................


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Law and Equity Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 253, s. 68.]



