







B.C. Reg. 118/2010

M125/2010


Deposited April 30, 2010

effective May 1, 2010






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024


for amendments effective after March 5, 2024.



Health Professions Act


Opticians Regulation






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Health Professions Act

;



"assessment record"

means the record produced by an independent automated refraction
conducted by a person who is authorized under the Act to conduct
independent automated refractions;



"authorizing document"

means




(a)

a prescription for a corrective eyeglass lens, or




(b)

an assessment record;



"automated refraction"

means a refraction conducted only for the purpose of assessing visual
acuity, by using an automated refraction system comprised of one or
more computerized components, including an autorefractor or
autophoropter or a lensometer, or a similar device;



"contact lens"

means a lens or mold designed or offered for the purposes of being
placed on the surface of the cornea or other anterior surface of an
eye to correct the refractive error of, or induce physiological change
in, the eye;



"contact lens fitter"

means a registrant authorized under the bylaws to fit contact lenses;



"contact lens record"

means




(a)

the record, prepared by a person authorized under the Act to fit a
contact lens, of the contact lens specifications derived from fitting
a contact lens using information contained in an authorizing document,
or




(b)

the equivalent of a record described in paragraph (a) of this
definition, prepared in another province or a foreign jurisdiction by
a person who is the equivalent, in that other province or foreign
jurisdiction, of a person authorized under the Act to fit a contact
lens;


"dispense"
means to design, prepare, fit, adjust, verify or supply;


"electronic"
has the same meaning as in the

Electronic Transactions Act

;


"fit"
means, in respect of a contact lens,




(a)

to select or recommend the design and type required, or




(b)

to perform any test related to assessing physiological safety or
suitability;



"independent automated refraction"

means an automated refraction conducted without the involvement of a
prescriber;



"interpupillary distance"

means one or more measurements of the distance between the pupils of
the eyes, as will be required for the proper fitting of eyeglasses;


"opticianry"
means the health profession in which a person provides the services of




(a)

dispensing vision appliances by




(i)

using information contained in prescriptions, contact lens records and
assessment records, and




(ii)

duplicating corrective eyeglass lenses, with no change in refractive
value, using a lensometer or similar device,




(b)

conducting automated refractions on the request of prescribers,




(c)

conducting independent automated refractions, and




(d)

promoting eye health and proper use of vision appliances;



"optometrist"

means a person who is authorized under the Act to practise optometry;


"prescriber"
means




(a)

an optometrist, or




(b)

a qualified medical practitioner

who prepares



(c)

a prescription, or




(d)

a contact lens record;



"prescription"

means the record of an authorization to dispense a vision appliance
for use by a named individual but does not include an assessment
record or a contact lens record;



"prescription for a corrective eyeglass lens"

means




(a)

the record, derived from an eye health examination and prepared by a
prescriber, of an authorization to dispense a corrective eyeglass lens
for use by a named individual, or




(b)

the equivalent of a record described in paragraph (a) of this
definition, prepared in another province or a foreign jurisdiction by
a person who is the equivalent, in that other province or foreign
jurisdiction, of a person authorized under the Act to prescribe a
corrective eyeglass lens,

that sets out



(c)

the lens power required to correct the refractive error of an eye, and




(d)

reading add, prisms, back vertex distance and contraindications;



"qualified medical practitioner"

means a medical practitioner who is authorized under the Act to
provide eye and vision system health services;


"supply"
does not include a wholesale transaction;


"verify"
means to inspect and confirm, before supplying to the named
individual, that the following specifications are met:




(a)

in the case of a corrective eyeglass lens, the specifications set out
in




(i)

the authorizing document, or




(ii)

the information contained in an authorizing document and provided by
the individual as described in section 5 (3) (a) (ii);




(b)

in the case of a contact lens, the specifications set out in




(i)

the contact lens record, or




(ii)

the information contained in a contact lens record and provided by the
individual as described in section 5 (3) (b) (ii);



"vision appliance"

means an appliance or a device designed or offered for a vision
condition,




(a)

including a corrective eyeglass lens, contact lens or low vision aid,
and




(b)

excluding complete ready-to-wear eyeglasses not designed or offered
for use by a named individual.






College name




2


The name "College of Opticians of British Columbia" is the name of the
college established under section 15 (1) of the Act for opticianry.






Reserved titles




3

(1)


The titles "optician" and "dispensing optician" are reserved for
exclusive use by registrants.




(2)

The title "contact lens fitter" is reserved for exclusive use by
contact lens fitters.






Scope of practice




4


A registrant may practise opticianry.






Restricted activities




5

(1)


A contact lens fitter in the course of practising opticianry may




(a)

fit a contact lens, or




(b)

supply a contact lens for the purpose of fitting a contact lens.




(2)

The following services may be provided only by contact lens fitters or
under the supervision of a contact lens fitter by persons who are not
contact lens fitters:




(a)

fitting a contact lens;




(b)

supplying a contact lens for the purpose of fitting a contact lens.




(3)

Subject to sections 6 and 8 of the Schedule to this regulation,
nothing in this regulation prevents a person from




(a)

dispensing a corrective eyeglass lens, if the person who dispenses it
has possession of




(i)

an electronic or a written copy of an authorizing document in respect
of the individual for whose use the corrective eyeglass lens is to be
dispensed, or




(ii)

information contained in an authorizing document and provided to the
person, in written or electronic form, by or on behalf of the
individual for whose use the corrective eyeglass lens is to be
dispensed, accompanied by a statement from that individual certifying
the existence and validity of the authorizing document and the
accuracy of the information provided,


and if the person dispenses the corrective eyeglass lens in accordance
with the authorizing document described in subparagraph (i) or the
information described in subparagraph (ii), as applicable;




(b)

dispensing a contact lens, if the person who dispenses it has
possession of




(i)

an electronic or a written copy of a contact lens record in respect of
the individual for whose use the contact lens is to be dispensed, or




(ii)

information contained in a contact lens record and provided to the
person, in written or electronic form, by or on behalf of the
individual for whose use the contact lens is to be dispensed,
accompanied by a statement from that individual certifying the
existence and validity of the contact lens record and the accuracy of
the information provided,


and if the person dispenses the contact lens in accordance with the
contact lens record described in subparagraph (i), or the information
described in subparagraph (ii), as applicable;




(c)

dispensing a duplicate of a corrective eyeglass lens, with no change
in refractive value, using a lensometer or similar device.






Limits or conditions on services and restricted activities




6

(1)


A registrant who is not a contact lens fitter may conduct only the
examination required for the proper fitting of eyeglasses.




(2)

A contact lens fitter may conduct only the examination required for
the proper fitting of eyeglasses or contact lenses.




(3)

A registrant may alter a prescription only with the express prior
authorization of the prescriber who prepared the prescription.




(4)

Subsection (3) does not apply to the vertex alteration required for
the proper fitting of eyeglasses or contact lenses using conversion
charts or similar formulae.




(5)

Subject to subsections (3) and (4), a registrant may dispense




(a)

a corrective eyeglass lens only in accordance with a prescription for
a corrective lens or an assessment record, and




(b)

a contact lens only in accordance with a contact lens record.




(6)

A registrant may conduct an independent automated refraction




(a)

only in accordance with the limits and conditions set out in the
Schedule to this regulation, and




(b)

only if the registrant has successfully completed a certification
program established, required or approved under the bylaws to ensure
that registrants are qualified and competent to conduct independent
automated refractions.




(7)

A contact lens fitter must provide, free of charge, a legible written
or electronic copy of the contact lens record, on completion of the
fitting, to




(a)

the client, whether or not requested by the client, and




(b)

another person specified by the client, if requested by the client.




(8)

A registrant must provide to a client, free of charge and whether or
not requested by the client, a legible written or electronic copy of
any prescription, contact lens record or assessment record provided to
the registrant by the client for the purpose of dispensing a vision
appliance.






Patient relations program




7


The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f) of
the Act.




Schedule



Limits and Conditions on the Conduct of

Independent Automated Refractions







1


The registrant must provide written notice to the client, in the form
specified in the bylaws and in a language understood by the client, at
the time of the independent automated refraction, explaining




(a)

that the procedure to be conducted is an independent automated
refraction and is not an eye health examination,




(b)

the distinction between an independent automated refraction and an eye
health examination, and that only a prescriber may perform an eye
health examination,




(c)

which ocular diseases or other conditions specified in section 5 of
this Schedule preclude a client from being able to have an independent
automated refraction, and




(d)

the desirability of periodic eye health examinations and recommending
that the client have an eye health examination in addition to the
independent automated refraction.







2


Prior to conducting the independent automated refraction, the
registrant must ensure the client has signed the notice described in
section 1 of this Schedule, attesting to the following:




(a)

that the client has read and understands the information contained in
the notice;




(b)

that the client is between the ages specified in section 5 (a) of this
Schedule;




(c)

that the client has had the examination specified in section 5 (b) of
this Schedule;




(d)

that to the best of the client's knowledge, the client is not subject
to and does not have a history of any ocular disease or other
condition specified in section 5 (c) of this Schedule.







3


If the client does not meet the requirements established in section 2
of this Schedule, the registrant must not conduct the independent
automated refraction and must recommend that the client have an eye
health examination.







4


The registrant must, in relation to the notice signed under section 2
of this Schedule,




(a)

provide, free of charge, and whether or not requested by the client, a
legible written or electronic copy to the client, and




(b)

retain a copy with the client's health care record until it may be
destroyed in accordance with the bylaws.







5


The registrant must not conduct an independent automated refraction
for a client who




(a)

is under the age of 19 years or is 65 years of age or older,




(b)

has not had at least one eye health examination since attaining the
age of 19 years or, if the client is 40 years of age or older, has not
had at least one eye health examination since attaining the age of 40
years, or




(c)

is subject to or has a history of any of the following:




(i)

glaucoma, retinal detachment, macular degeneration or diplopia;




(ii)

a prescription for corrective lenses containing prisms;




(iii)

refractive error exceeding plus or minus 6.00 dioptres in either eye;




(iv)

diabetes or hypertension;




(v)

recent head trauma;




(vi)

injury or pain occurring to or in either eye within the previous 3
months;




(vii)

any other condition, symptom or sign indicating a need for an eye
health examination as set out in the standards, limits or conditions
established by the college for the practice of opticianry.







6


Corrective eyeglass lenses must not be dispensed, and a contact lens
must not be fitted or dispensed, on the basis of an assessment record,
in any of the following circumstances:




(a)

the assessment record indicates that there has been a change in
refractive error exceeding




(i)

plus or minus 1.00 dioptre in either eye within the previous 6 months,
or




(ii)

plus or minus 2.00 dioptres in either eye since the date of the most
recent prescription or assessment record, if any, provided by the
client to the registrant;




(b)

the assessment record indicates that




(i)

there is refractive error exceeding plus or minus 6.00 dioptres in
either eye, or




(ii)

prisms might be required;




(c)

the best corrected visual acuity will be less than 20/25 in either
eye;




(d)

the client is not satisfied with the client's best corrected vision
after 2 contemporaneous independent automated refractions have been
conducted.







7


The registrant must recommend that a client have an eye health
examination in any of the circumstances described in section 6 of this
Schedule.







8


Sections 1 to 5 and 6 (a) to (c) of this Schedule do not apply if a
prescriber who has performed an eye health examination of the client
has requested a registrant to conduct an independent automated
refraction on the client.







9


The client must not be charged for an independent automated refraction
if




(a)

due to an error during the independent automated refraction, no
assessment record is produced or a corrective eyeglass lens or contact
lens cannot be fitted or dispensed using information contained in the
assessment record, or




(b)

under section 6 of this Schedule, a corrective eyeglass lens or
contact lens must not be fitted or dispensed using information
contained in the assessment record.







10


The registrant must, in relation to the assessment record,




(a)

set out the client's interpupillary distance in the assessment record,
as measured at the time of the independent automated refraction,




(b)

provide, free of charge, a legible written or electronic copy to




(i)

the client, whether or not requested by the client, and




(ii)

another person specified by the client, if requested by the client,
and




(c)

retain a copy with the client's health care record until it may be
destroyed in accordance with the bylaws.



Note:
this regulation replaces B.C. Reg. 287/2008.


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Health Professions Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, section 12 (2)]



