







B.C. Reg. 225/2023

O.C. 576/2023


Deposited October 23, 2023






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)




Pay Transparency Act


Pay Transparency Regulation






Definitions and interpretation




1

(1)


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Pay Transparency Act

;


"bonus pay"
means any of the following:




(a)

pay as defined in paragraphs (b) and (c) of the definition of "pay" in
the Act;




(b)

a bonus received by an employee in the form of securities;




(c)

money received by an employee as a commission;


"employee"
means an employee of a reporting employer;



"gender category"

, in relation to an employee, means the applicable category set out in
subsection (2);



"hourly rate of pay"

, in relation to an employee, means the amount determined under
subsection (3);


"NAICS code"
means the North American Industry Classification System Canada 2022
sector code that applies to the greatest number of employees of a
reporting employer;



"ordinary pay"

means any of the following:




(a)

money paid as salary;




(b)

money paid for an employee's usual hours of work;




(c)

money paid for hours worked in excess of an employee's usual hours of
work, if the money is not overtime pay;



"overtime hours"

means hours worked for which an employee receives overtime pay;



"overtime pay"

means money paid to an employee if




(a)

the money is for hours worked in excess of the employee's usual hours
of work, and




(b)

the money is based on a rate of pay that is at least 1.5 times the
rate of pay applicable to the employee's usual hours of work;



"reference category"

, in relation to a pay transparency report, means the applicable
gender category determined under subsection (4);



"reporting period"

, in relation to a pay transparency report, means the applicable
12-month period described in section 4.




(2)

The following are the gender categories that apply in relation to
reporting requirements under this regulation:




(a)

Man, for an employee who identifies as a man;




(b)

Woman, for an employee who identifies as a woman;




(c)

Non-binary, for an employee who identifies as non-binary;




(d)

Unknown, for an employee




(i)

who does not identify as being in a gender category set out in
paragraph (a), (b) or (c),




(ii)

who does not wish to specify which gender category applies, or




(iii)

about whom the reporting employer does not have information respecting
the employee's gender category.




(3)

For the purposes of this regulation, an employee's hourly rate of pay
for a reporting period is to be determined by dividing the total
amount of ordinary pay received by the employee during the reporting
period by the number of hours for which the employee received ordinary
pay during that reporting period.




(4)

For the purposes of preparing a pay transparency report, the reference
category is




(a)

the gender category Man, if there are 10 or more employees in that
gender category,




(b)

the gender category Unknown, if there are fewer than 10 employees in
the gender category Man and 10 or more employees in the gender
category Unknown, or




(c)

the gender category Non-binary, if




(i)

there are 10 or more employees in the gender category Non-binary, and




(ii)

there are fewer than 10 employees in both the gender category Man and
the gender category Unknown.




(5)

Despite subsection (4) (a), if there are fewer than 10 employees in
each of the gender categories Man, Non-binary and Unknown then there
is no reference category.




(6)

For greater certainty, bonus pay includes




(a)

a holiday bonus,




(b)

a year-end bonus, and




(c)

money that relates to profit-sharing.






Information to be collected by reporting employers




2


For the purposes of section 6 (1) (a), (b) and (c) of the Act, the
prescribed information is the gender category of each employee of the
reporting employer.






Information to be included in pay transparency reports




3

(1)


For the purposes of section 5 (a) of the Act, the following is the
prescribed information that must be included in a pay transparency
report:




(a)

the name of the reporting employer;




(b)

the reporting employer's mailing address;




(c)

the applicable NAICS code;




(d)

the dates on which the reporting period began and ended;




(e)

the number of employees of the reporting employer as of January 1 in
the year the pay transparency report is prepared, expressed in terms
of one of the following ranges as applicable:




(i)

50 to 299 employees;




(ii)

300 to 999 employees;




(iii)

1 000 or more employees;




(f)

the applicable reference category determined under section 1 (4);




(g)

the information described in subsection (2), unless there is no
reference category;




(h)

subject to subsection (3),




(i)

the percentage of employees in each gender category who received
overtime pay during the reporting period, and




(ii)

the percentage of employees in each gender category who received bonus
pay during the reporting period.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), the following information must be included
in a pay transparency report:




(a)

the difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of employees in the
reference category and the mean hourly rate of pay of employees in
each of the other gender categories, determined in accordance with
section 5;




(b)

the difference between the median hourly rate of pay of employees in
the reference category and the median hourly rate of pay of employees
in each of the other gender categories, determined in accordance with
section 6;




(c)

the difference between the mean amount of overtime pay of employees in
the reference category who received overtime pay during the reporting
period and the mean amount of overtime pay of employees in each of the
other gender categories who received overtime pay during that
reporting period, determined in accordance with section 7;




(d)

the difference between the median amount of overtime pay of employees
in the reference category who received overtime pay during the
reporting period and the median amount of overtime pay of employees in
each of the other gender categories who received overtime pay during
that reporting period, determined in accordance with section 8;




(e)

the difference between the mean number of overtime hours of employees
in the reference category who worked overtime hours during the
reporting period and the mean number of overtime hours of employees in
each of the other gender categories who worked overtime hours during
that reporting period, determined in accordance with section 9;




(f)

the difference between the median number of overtime hours of
employees in the reference category who worked overtime hours during
the reporting period and the median number of overtime hours of
employees in each of the other gender categories who worked overtime
hours during that reporting period, determined in accordance with
section 10;




(g)

the difference between the mean amount of bonus pay of employees in
the reference category who received bonus pay during the reporting
period and the mean amount of bonus pay of employees in each of the
other gender categories who received bonus pay during that reporting
period, determined in accordance with section 11;




(h)

the difference between the median amount of bonus pay of employees in
the reference category who received bonus pay during the reporting
period and the median amount of bonus pay of employees in each of the
other gender categories who received bonus pay during that reporting
period, determined in accordance with section 12;




(i)

the information described in section 13.




(3)

A reporting employer must not include any of the following information
in a pay transparency report:




(a)

the information described in subsections (1) (h) and (2) (a) to (h)
respecting a gender category in which there are fewer than 10
employees;




(b)

if there is only one gender category in which there are 10 or more
employees, the information described in subsection (1) (h) and section
13.




(4)

If subsection (3) (a) or (b) applies, the reporting employer must, in
the pay transparency report, include a statement that explains why the
subsection applies.




(5)

The information that a reporting employer is required to include in a
pay transparency report must, to the extent practicable, be set out in
the following order:




(a)

the information described in section 3 (1) (a) to (f);




(b)

the information described in section 3 (2) (a) to (f);




(c)

the information described in section 3 (1) (h) (i);




(d)

the information described in section 3 (2) (g) and (h);




(e)

the information described in section 3 (1) (h) (ii);




(f)

the information described in section 13.






Time periods respecting pay transparency reports




4


A pay transparency report must, at the option of the reporting
employer, cover one of the following 12-month periods:




(a)

the most recently completed financial year of the reporting employer;




(b)

the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which the pay
transparency report is prepared.






Differences between gender categories â€” mean hourly rates of pay




5


The difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of employees in the
reference category and the mean hourly rate of pay of employees in
each of the other gender categories is to be determined by taking the
following steps in sequence:




(a)

calculate the hourly rate of pay for each employee in the manner
described in section 1 (3);




(b)

for each gender category, add the hourly rate of pay for each employee
in the gender category and divide the total by the number of employees
in that gender category;




(c)

for each gender category other than the reference category, subtract
the amount determined under paragraph (b) from the amount determined
under paragraph (b) for the reference category;




(d)

divide each amount determined under paragraph (c) by the amount
determined under paragraph (b) for the reference category;




(e)

multiply each amount determined under paragraph (d) by 100 and round
the result to the nearest whole number, which whole number is the
difference, expressed as a percentage, between the mean hourly rate of
pay of employees in the reference category and the mean hourly rate of
pay of employees in the other gender category.






Differences between gender categories â€” median hourly rates of pay




6


The difference between the median hourly rate of pay of employees in
the reference category and the median hourly rate of pay of employees
in each of the other gender categories is to be determined by taking
the following steps in sequence:




(a)

calculate the hourly rate of pay for each employee in the manner
described in section 1 (3);




(b)

for each gender category, list the hourly rate of pay for each
employee in the gender category from lowest to highest, and




(i)

if there is an odd number of employees in the list, the median hourly
rate of pay for employees in the gender category is the hourly rate of
pay in the middle of the list, and




(ii)

if there is an even number of employees in the list, the median hourly
rate of pay for employees in the gender category is the amount that is
half-way between the two hourly rates of pay in the middle of the
list;




(c)

for each gender category other than the reference category, subtract
the rate of pay determined under paragraph (b) from the median hourly
rate of pay determined under paragraph (b) for the reference category;




(d)

divide each amount determined under paragraph (c) by the rate of pay
determined under paragraph (b) for the reference category;




(e)

multiply each amount determined under paragraph (d) by 100 and round
the result to the nearest whole number, which whole number is the
difference, expressed as a percentage, between the median hourly rate
of pay of employees in the reference category and the median hourly
rate of pay of employees in the other gender category.






Differences between gender categories â€” mean overtime pay for
reporting period




7


The difference between the mean amount of overtime pay of employees in
the reference category who received overtime pay during a reporting
period and the mean amount of overtime pay of employees in each of the
other gender categories who received overtime pay during that
reporting period is to be determined by taking the following steps in
sequence:




(a)

for each gender category, add the total amount of overtime pay of all
employees in the gender category who received overtime pay during the
reporting period and divide the total by the number of employees in
that gender category who received overtime pay during the reporting
period;




(b)

for each gender category other than the reference category, subtract
the amount determined under paragraph (a) from the amount determined
under paragraph (a) for the reference category;




(c)

divide each amount determined under paragraph (b) by the amount
determined under paragraph (a) for the reference category;




(d)

multiply each amount determined under paragraph (c) by 100 and round
the result to the nearest whole number, which whole number is the
difference, expressed as a percentage, between the mean amount of
overtime pay received by employees in the reference category who
received overtime pay during the reporting period and the mean amount
of overtime pay received by employees in the other gender category who
received overtime pay during that reporting period.






Differences between gender categories â€” median overtime pay for
reporting period




8


The difference between the median amount of overtime pay of employees
in the reference category who received overtime pay during a reporting
period and the median amount of overtime pay of employees in each of
the other gender categories who received overtime pay during that
period is to be determined by taking the following steps in sequence:




(a)

for each gender category, list from lowest to highest the overtime pay
received by each employee in the gender category who received overtime
pay during the reporting period, and




(i)

if there is an odd number of employees in a list, the median amount of
overtime pay for the gender category is the amount of overtime pay in
the middle of the list, and




(ii)

if there is an even number of employees in a list, the median overtime
pay for the gender category is the amount of overtime pay that is
half-way between the two amounts of overtime pay in the middle of the
list;




(b)

for each gender category other than the reference category, subtract
the amount determined under paragraph (a) from the amount determined
under paragraph (a) for the reference category;




(c)

divide each amount determined under paragraph (b) by the amount
determined under paragraph (a) for the reference category;




(d)

multiply each amount determined under paragraph (c) by 100 and round
the result to the nearest whole number, which whole number is the
difference, expressed as a percentage, between the median amount of
overtime pay received by employees in the reference category who
received overtime pay during the reporting period and the median
amount of overtime pay received by employees in the other gender
category who received overtime pay during that reporting period.






Differences between gender categories â€” mean number of overtime hours
for reporting period




9


The difference between the mean number of overtime hours of employees
in the reference category who worked overtime hours during a reporting
period and the mean number of overtime hours of employees in each of
the other gender categories who worked overtime hours during that
reporting period is to be determined by taking the following steps in
sequence:




(a)

for each gender category, add the total number of overtime hours of
employees in the gender category who worked overtime hours during the
reporting period and divide the total by the number of employees in
that gender category who worked overtime hours during the reporting
period;




(b)

for each gender category other than the reference category, subtract
the amount determined under paragraph (a) from the amount determined
under paragraph (a) for the reference category, and round the result
to the nearest whole number, which whole number is the difference
between the mean number of overtime hours of employees in the
reference category who worked overtime hours during the reporting
period and the mean number of overtime hours of employees in the other
gender category who worked overtime hours during the reporting period.






Differences between gender categories â€” median number of overtime
hours for reporting period




10


The difference between the median number of overtime hours of
employees in the reference category who worked overtime hours during a
reporting period and the median number of overtime hours of employees
in each of the other gender categories who worked overtime hours
during that reporting period is to be determined by taking the
following steps in sequence:




(a)

for each gender category, list from lowest to highest the number of
overtime hours of each employee in the gender category who worked
overtime hours during the reporting period, and




(i)

if there is an odd number of employees in a list, the median number of
overtime hours for the gender category is the number in the middle of
the list, and




(ii)

if there is an even number of employees in a list, the median number
of overtime hours for the gender category is the number that is
half-way between the two numbers in the middle of the list;




(b)

for each gender category other than the reference category, subtract
the amount determined under paragraph (a) from the amount determined
under paragraph (a) for the reference category, and round the result
to the nearest whole number, which whole number is the difference
between the median number of overtime hours of employees in the
reference category who worked overtime hours during the reporting
period and the median number of overtime hours of employees in the
other gender category who worked overtime hours during the reporting
period.






Differences between gender categories â€” mean bonus pay for reporting
period




11


The difference between the mean amount of bonus pay of employees in
the reference category who received bonus pay during a reporting
period and the mean amount of bonus pay of employees in each of the
other gender categories who received bonus pay during that reporting
period is to be determined by taking the following steps in sequence:




(a)

for each gender category, add the total amount of bonus pay of all
employees in the gender category who received bonus pay during the
reporting period and divide the total by the number of employees in
that gender category who received bonus pay during the reporting
period;




(b)

for each gender category other than the reference category, subtract
the amount determined under paragraph (a) from the amount determined
under paragraph (a) for the reference category;




(c)

divide each amount determined under paragraph (b) by the amount
determined under paragraph (a) for the reference category;




(d)

multiply each amount determined under paragraph (c) by 100 and round
the result to the nearest whole number, which whole number is the
difference, expressed as a percentage, between the mean amount of
bonus pay of employees in the reference category who received bonus
pay during the reporting period and the mean bonus pay of employees in
the other gender category who received bonus pay during the reporting
period.






Differences between gender categories â€” median bonus pay for reporting
period




12


The difference between the median amount of bonus pay of employees in
the reference category who received bonus pay during a reporting
period and the median amount of bonus pay of employees in each of the
other gender categories who received bonus pay during that reporting
period is to be determined by taking the following steps in sequence:




(a)

for each gender category, list from lowest to highest the amount of
bonus pay received by each employee in the gender category who
received bonus pay during the reporting period, and




(i)

if there is an odd number of employees in a list, the median amount of
bonus pay for the gender category is the amount in the middle of the
list, and




(ii)

if there is an even number of employees in a list, the median amount
of bonus pay for the gender category is the number that is half-way
between the two amounts in the middle of the list;




(b)

for each gender category other than the reference category, subtract
the amount determined under paragraph (a) from the amount determined
under paragraph (a) for the reference category;




(c)

divide each amount determined under paragraph (b) by the amount
determined under paragraph (a) for the reference category;




(d)

multiply each amount determined under paragraph (c) by 100 and round
the result to the nearest whole number, which whole number is the
difference, expressed as a percentage, between the median amount of
bonus pay of employees in the reference category who received bonus
pay during the reporting period and the median amount of bonus pay of
employees in the other gender category who received bonus pay during
the reporting period.






Information about the percentage of employees in specified segments




13

(1)


The reporting employer must, for the purpose of preparing a pay
transparency report,




(a)

rank all of its employees from the lowest hourly rate of pay to the
highest hourly rate of pay, and




(b)

divide the employees, as ranked under paragraph (a), into four
segments, each containing an equal number of employees or as close as
is possible to an equal number of employees.




(2)

If, in respect of the division of employees into segments under
subsection (1) (b), employees with the same hourly rate of pay could
be allocated to more that one segment, the employer must, in respect
of those employees, allocate an equal number, or as close as is
possible to an equal number, of employees from each gender category
into each of those segments.




(3)

For each segment into which employees are divided, the reporting
employer must specify the percentage of employees who are in each of
the gender categories, unless subsection (4) applies.




(4)

If, in respect of a segment into which employees are divided, a gender
category has fewer than 10 employees in the segment, the reporting
employer must not specify the percentage of employees who are in that
gender category in that segment.




(5)

For the purpose of calculating the percentage of employees who are in
a gender category in a segment, the number of employees in the
respective segment must be reduced by the number of employees in that
segment who are in gender categories consisting of fewer than 10
employees.




(6)

If, in accordance with subsection (5), the total number of employees
in a segment is reduced, the reporting employer must, in the pay
transparency report, state that this has been done.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Pay Transparency Act

, S.B.C. 2023, c. 18, s. 13 (2).]



