







B.C. Reg. 253/2000

O.C. 994/2000


Deposited July 7, 2000

effective September 1, 2000






This consolidation is current to February 27, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024


for amendments effective after February 27, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Wildlife Act


Permit Regulation


[Last amended October 11, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 203/2022]






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Wildlife Act

;



"government agency"

means




(a)

the government of Canada or an agency operated or maintained by that
government,




(b)

the government of a province in Canada or an agency operated or
maintained by a province, or




(c)

the government of the United States of America, a state of the United
States or an agency operated or maintained by the United States or a
state of the United States;



"licence year"

means the period commencing April 1 in a calendar year and ending on
March 31 of the following calendar year;



"regional manager"

, except in sections 6 (2), 9 (1), 17 (1) and 23 (4) (c), includes a
person authorized by a regional manager;


"shot"
has the same meaning as in B.C. Reg. 76/84, the Closed Areas
Regulation;



"youth hunting licence"

has the same meaning as in the Hunting Licensing Regulation, B.C. Reg.
8/99;


"zoo"
means a place or enclosure where animals are kept in captivity for
public viewing or public display, but does not include a permitted
rehabilitation facility or a business for the sale of live animals.

[am. B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 6, s. 1.]





Authorization by permit




2


A regional manager may issue a permit in accordance with this
regulation on the terms and for the period the regional manager
specifies




(a)

authorizing a person to use land or resources in a wildlife management
area in accordance with section 4 (4) of the Act,




(b)

authorizing a resident to hunt, trap or kill wildlife on the
resident's own property during the open or closed season, including by
the use of poison, for the following purposes:




(i)

agricultural crop protection;




(ii)

controlling wildlife populations,




(c)

authorizing a person to hunt, trap or kill wildlife during the open or
closed season for the following purposes:




(i)

scientific purposes;




(ii)

educational purposes;




(iii)

if the regional manager considers it necessary for the proper
management of the wildlife resource;




(iv)

on behalf of the government, to destroy wildlife that is dangerous to
public safety;




(v)

on behalf of the government, to destroy wildlife that is so badly
injured that prolonging the animal's life would result in the animal
suffering unduly,




(d)

authorizing a person to hunt, trap or kill wildlife in a wildlife
sanctuary,




(e)

authorizing a person to trap wildlife during the open or closed season
with a trap that is prohibited by regulation,




(f)

authorizing a person to traffic in




(i)

legally taken wildlife meat,




(ii)

the person's possessory interest in wildlife legally held captive, or




(iii)

the person's possessory interest in dead wildlife or wildlife parts,




(g)

authorizing a person to allow a dog to pursue small game, excluding
migratory game birds, during the open or closed season for the purpose
of conducting field dog trials,




(h)

authorizing a person to capture live wildlife,




(i)

authorizing a person to discharge a firearm in a no shooting area,




(j)

authorizing a person to possess live wildlife,




(k)

authorizing




(i)

a person to possess and dispose of dead wildlife or parts of wildlife
for scientific or educational purposes, or




(ii)

a person to possess and dispose of dead wildlife or parts of wildlife
for a ceremonial or societal purpose,




(l)

authorizing a licensed trapper or a person exempt from holding a
trapping licence to set traps for and trap fur bearing animals on a
trapline registered to another person,




(m)

authorizing a person to transport or engage another person to
transport live wildlife within British Columbia,




(n)

authorizing a person to export from British Columbia




(i)

wildlife,




(ii)

parts of wildlife, or




(iii)

an egg of a wildlife species,




(o)

authorizing a person to release an animal from captivity,




(p)

transferring the right of property in dead wildlife or wildlife parts
from the government to a person,




(q)

authorizing an assistant guide to exercise the privileges and perform
the duties of a guide outfitter under the Act and regulations,




(r)

authorizing a person or association to organize or carry on an
operation for the purpose of hunting game birds, excluding migratory
game birds, on property the person or association owns or controls
access to,




(s)

authorizing an institution or non-profit organization directly
concerned with physically or mentally disabled persons or persons
under 19 years of age to undertake fishing programs in non-tidal
waters of British Columbia and exempting the participants of the
program from the requirement to hold an angling licence,




(t)

authorizing a person, for the purpose of rehabilitating wildlife, to
do any or all of the following:




(i)

keep wildlife in captivity;




(ii)

capture wildlife;




(iii)

transport wildlife




(A)

to a rehabilitation facility, or




(B)

for the purpose of releasing the wildlife;




(iv)

release wildlife;




(v)

perform euthanasia on wildlife;




(vi)

possess dead wildlife for the purpose of disposal,




(u)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 441/2004.]




(v)

authorizing a person in need of sustenance to possess game meat for
the purpose of providing sustenance for the person and the person's
dependants,




(w)

authorizing a food bank or similar non-profit organization to possess
and distribute game meat to persons in need of sustenance,




(x)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 441/2004.]




(y)

authorizing a person to possess dead wildlife or parts of wildlife if
the documentation to prove ownership under section 2 (2) or 2 (3) of
the Act has been lost or destroyed,




(z)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 441/2004.]




(aa)

subject to section 2.01, authorizing a physically disabled person to
be assisted by having one or more hunting companions to, on the
disabled person's behalf, track, kill and retrieve big game wounded by
the disabled person, or




(bb)

subject to section 2.01, authorizing a physically disabled person to
be assisted by having one or more hunting companions, named on the
permit, to shoot, track, kill and retrieve big game on the disabled
person's behalf.


[am. B.C. Regs. 358/2002, s. 1; 441/2004; 266/2014, Sch. 5, s. 1;
64/2021, ss. 2, 3 and 8.]






Permits under section 2 (aa) and (bb)




2.01

(1)


The regional manager may only issue a permit




(a)

under section 2 (aa) if, because of a person's physical disability,
the person to be assisted is unable to track or retrieve big game and
would be unable, if on the initial shooting the big game is not
killed, to track, kill or retrieve the wounded big game, or




(b)

under section 2 (bb) if, because of a person's physical disability,
the person to be assisted is unable to discharge a firearm or
crossbow.




(2)

The regional manager, in issuing a permit




(a)

under section 2 (aa) or (bb), must set as a condition of the permit
that the permit holder and the hunting companion each has a hunting
licence, and




(b)

under section 2 (bb), must set as conditions of the permit that the
permit holder




(i)

selects the animal to be hunted by the hunting companion, and




(ii)

remains in the presence of the hunting companion during the initial
shooting of the animal by the hunting companion.


[en. B.C. Reg. 266/2014, Sch. 5, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, ss. 3
and 8.]






Rainbow trout ponds




2.1

(1)


In this section,
"pond"
means an artificially created pool of water




(a)

that is a closed-system for holding rainbow trout,




(b)

that is not connected to a natural watercourse,




(c)

from which rainbow trout can not escape to tidal or non-tidal waters
if the pond overflows, and




(d)

that is not used for commercial aquaculture.




(2)

A regional manager may issue live fish permits for either or both of
the following activities:




(a)

the transportation, in British Columbia, of rainbow trout from a
licensed aquaculture facility, as defined in the Aquaculture
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 78/2002, to a pond;




(b)

holding rainbow trout in a pond.


[en. B.C. Reg. 249/2001; am. B.C. Reg. 222/2016, s. 1.]






Exemptions by permit




3

(1)


A regional manager may issue a permit in accordance with this
regulation on the terms and for the period the regional manager
specifies, exempting a person from




(a)

the prohibition in section 9 (1) of the Act against destroying beaver
or muskrat dens or houses or beaver dams,




(b)

for permits issued under section 2 (b), (c) or (d), the prohibitions
in section 26 (1) (d), (e) or (h) of the Act against hunting, taking,
trapping, wounding or killing wildlife




(i)

with a firearm or a bow during prohibited hours,




(ii)

by the use of or with the aid of a light or illuminating device, or




(iii)

with a pump, repeating or auto loading shotgun unless the magazine is
incapable of holding more than 2 cartridges,




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 19/2021, s. 1.]




(d)

the prohibitions in section 34 of the Act against possessing, taking
or destroying




(i)

a bird or its egg,




(ii)

the nest of an eagle, peregrine falcon, gyrfalcon, osprey, heron or
burrowing owl, or




(iii)

the nest of a bird not referred to in subparagraph (ii), when the nest
is occupied by a bird or its egg,




(e)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 441/2004.]




(f)

the prohibitions in section 10 (1) of B.C. Reg. 76/84, the Closed Area
Regulation, against discharging




(i)

a firearm in an area set out in Schedule 9 to that regulation unless
the person uses shot only,




(ii)

a firearm in an area set out in Schedule 10 to that regulation during
the appropriate period set out in that Schedule for each area unless
the person uses shot only,




(iii)

a rifle in an area set out in Schedule 11 to that regulation, or




(iv)

a firearm in an area set out in Schedule 13 to that regulation unless
the person uses non-toxic shot only, or




(g)

an order of the regional manager under section 7 (4) of the Act.




(2)

A regional manager may issue a permit in accordance with this
regulation, on the terms and for the period the regional manager
specifies, exempting a person from one or more of the following:




(a)

a provision of the Motor Vehicle Prohibition Regulation, B.C. Reg.
196/99;




(b)

section 2, 3, 6, 7 or 9 to 14 of the Public Access Prohibition
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 187/2003;




(c)

a provision of the Wildlife Management Area Use and Access Regulation,
B.C. Reg. 24/2015.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 441/2004.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 258/2003; 441/2004; 222/2016, s. 2; 19/2021, s. 1;
64/2021, s. 2.]






Permit for use of conveyance




3.1

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) to (4), a regional manager may issue a
permit in accordance with this regulation on the terms and for the
period the regional manager specifies authorizing a person to
undertake one or more of the following activities prohibited by
section 27 of the Act:




(a)

discharging a firearm or wounding or killing wildlife from a motor
vehicle or from a boat that is propelled by a motor;




(b)

hunting wildlife from an aircraft;




(c)

using a helicopter to transport hunters or game, or while on a hunting
expedition;




(d)

herding or harassing wildlife with the use of a motor vehicle,
aircraft, boat or other mechanical device.




(2)

A regional manager may not issue a permit under subsection (1) (a)
unless




(a)

the activity to be undertaken under the permit is for one of the
following purposes:




(i)

a scientific purpose;




(ii)

an educational purpose;




(iii)

to destroy wildlife that is dangerous to public safety;




(iv)

to destroy wildlife that is so badly injured that prolonging the
animal's life would result in the animal suffering unduly;




(v)

to address a matter of animal health among wildlife populations;




(vi)

to control wildlife populations;




(vii)

to accommodate hunting by a person with a physical disability, or




(b)

the regional manager considers that issuing the permit is necessary
for the proper management of a wildlife resource.




(3)

A regional manager may not issue a permit under subsection (1) (b) or
(d) unless




(a)

the regional manager is satisfied that the person who will be
undertaking the activity under the permit has sufficient skill to
undertake that activity, and




(b)

one the following applies:




(i)

the activity to be undertaken under the permit is for a purpose
referred to in any of subsection (2) (a) (i) to (vi);




(ii)

the regional manager considers that issuing the permit is necessary
for the proper management of a wildlife resource.




(4)

A regional manager may not issue a permit under subsection (1) (c)
unless




(a)

the activity to be undertaken under the permit is for a purpose
referred to in any of subsection (2) (i) to (vi),




(b)

the regional manager considers that exigent circumstances exist and
use of the helicopter will assist in




(i)

addressing a risk to the life or health of a person, or




(ii)

retrieving property, including game that has been taken or killed, or




(c)

the regional manager considers that issuing the permit is necessary
for the proper management of a wildlife resource.




(5)

Subject to subsection (6), a person who undertakes an activity in
accordance with a permit issued under subsection (1) is exempt from
the following:




(a)

section 35 (2) of the Act;




(b)

section 18 (1) (q) of the Hunting Regulation, B.C. Reg. 190/84.




(6)

The exemption under subsection (5) does not apply to a permit issued
under subsection (1) (a) for the purpose referred to in subsection (2)
(a) (vii).


[en. B.C. Reg. 19/2021, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 2.]






Director's permits




4


The director may issue a permit in accordance with this regulation on
the terms and for the period the director specifies,




(a)

if satisfied that special circumstances exist, authorizing a
non-resident or non-resident alien,




(i)

to hunt game, or




(ii)

to angle for fish,




(b)

authorizing a person to import into British Columbia




(i)

live wildlife, or




(ii)

the egg of a wildlife species,




(c)

authorizing an educational institution or non-profit organization that
provides outdoor educational programs in British Columbia to undertake
fishing programs in non-tidal waters of British Columbia and exempting
the participants of the program from the requirement to hold an
angling licence,




(d)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 441/2004.]




(e)

that will be awarded to the nominee of a person who holds a raffle or
auction in accordance with a contract that person entered into with
the government, authorizing a person to hunt game




(i)

in an open or closed season, and




(ii)

in excess of the bag limit for the species of game,




(f)

authorizing a person to possess a species individual of a controlled
alien species if




(i)

the species individual was in British Columbia on March 16, 2009,




(ii)

the person operates a zoo or is an educational or research
institution, or




(iii)

the director is satisfied that special circumstances exist,




(g)

authorizing a person who possesses a species individual of a
controlled alien species and who operates a zoo or is an educational
or research institution to allow that species individual to breed, or




(h)

authorizing a person to ship or transport a species individual of a
controlled alien species in British Columbia.


[am. B.C. Regs. 441/2004; 120/2009, Sch. 2, s. 1 and Sch. 3, s. 1;
127/2017, App. 6, s. 2; 79/2018, App. 3, s. 1; 64/2021, s. 2.]






Restrictions on issuing permits generally




5

(1)


Before issuing a permit under section 2, 3 or 4 the regional manager
or the director, as applicable, must be satisfied




(a)

that the applicant meets the specific requirements, if any, for the
permit as set out in this regulation, and




(b)

that issuing the permit is not contrary to the proper management of
wildlife resources in British Columbia.




(2)

A permit must not be issued to a person




(a)

who is under 10 years of age, or




(b)

who is under 19 years of age unless a parent or guardian of the person
has consented in writing to the application.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), a permit under section 4 (f) to (h) must not
be issued to a person who is under 19 years of age.


[am. B.C. Reg. 120/2009, Sch. 2, s. 2 and Sch. 3, s. 2.]






Restrictions on permits providing possessory or property rights




6

(1)


A regional manager must not issue




(a)

a permit under section 2 (j) or (p) if the wildlife or parts that are
the subject of the permit were taken, captured, possessed,
transported, hunted, trapped, imported or killed contrary to the Act
or regulations,




(b)

a permit under section 2 (p) if the wildlife that is the subject of
the permit was killed by accident, for a humane purpose or for the
protection of life or property, unless the regional manager is
satisfied that special circumstances exist,




(c)

a permit under section 2 (p) transferring a right of property in




(i)

antlers, or




(ii)

any of the following wildlife or parts of them:




(A)

eagles;




(B)

migratory insectivorous birds or migratory nongame birds both as
defined in the Convention appended to the

Migratory Birds Convention Act, 1994

(Canada);




(C)

endangered species or threatened species;




(D)

grizzly bears, or




(d)

a permit under section 2 (p) for wildlife if the value of the wildlife
or wildlife parts is greater than $200 unless




(i)

the person applying for the permit will receive the dead wildlife or
wildlife parts as compensation for conducting work or an activity on
behalf of the government, or




(ii)

the person applying for the permit is applying on behalf of a
charitable organization in British Columbia.




(2)

For the purpose of subsection (1) (d), the value of wildlife or
wildlife parts is to be determined by the regional manager based on
the average price the government receives at auction for wildlife or
wildlife parts of the particular species, of similar size and in
similar condition.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), a regional manager may issue a permit under
section 2 (j) or (p), as applicable, to an educational institution or
a scientific organization or an agent of either




(i)

to authorize the possession of, or




(ii)

to transfer property rights in


wildlife or parts of wildlife for an educational or scientific
purpose.




(4)

Despite subsection (1) (a), a regional manager may issue a permit
under section 2 (p) with respect to dead wildlife or a part of
wildlife to a person who finds and collects that wildlife or part and
who was not a party to any of the activities referred to in subsection
(1) (a) with respect that wildlife or part, other than transporting
and possessing, if the person immediately notifies an officer that the
person is in possession of that dead wildlife or part and applies for
the permit.


[am. B.C. Regs. 358/2002, s. 2; 52/2018, Sch. 3, s. 1; 64/2021, s. 2.]






No permit to import certain wildlife




7

(1)


For the purpose of section 21 of the Act and section 4 (b) of this
regulation, a permit must not be issued to authorize the importation
of a species of wildlife listed in Schedule 1.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the director may issue a permit under section
4 (b) for a species of wildlife listed in Schedule 1 if the applicant
is an educational institution or scientific organization or an agent
of either and the director is satisfied that the importation will not
be detrimental to native wildlife or wildlife habitat.






General offence — failure to comply with permit




8


A person who holds a permit under the Act or this regulation commits
an offence if the person fails to comply with a term of the permit.

[am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 2.]





Live capture permits




9

(1)


An application for a permit under section 2 (h) must be made to the
regional manager in writing and must either contain the following
information or specify when the applicant will provide the following
information:




(a)

the name, address and date of birth of the applicant;




(b)

the species, age, sex and number of wildlife to be captured;




(c)

the location of the proposed capture;




(d)

the method of capture and transportation of the wildlife to be
captured;




(e)

the standard of care for the wildlife to be captured;




(f)

the proposed use of the wildlife.




(2)

A person is not eligible for a permit under section 2 (h) if the
person has been convicted of an offence




(a)

specified under section 84 (1) (a) of the Act, within the 5 year
period immediately preceding the application for a permit, or




(b)

specified under section 84 (1) (b) of the Act, within the 3 year
period immediately preceding the application for a permit.




(3)

A permit under section 2 (h) for the capture of a raptor for the
purposes of falconry may be issued only to a resident.




(4)

The following are terms of every permit issued under section 2 (h):




(a)

the holder of the permit must notify the permit issuer in writing
within 21 days after the capture of wildlife of




(i)

the species, age, sex and number of the wildlife captured and whether
alive or dead,




(ii)

the date of capture of each animal,




(iii)

the location of capture of each animal, and




(iv)

the provisions instituted and maintained to ensure humane care of the
wildlife;




(b)

if no wildlife is captured under the permit the holder of the permit
must, within 21 days after the expiry date of the permit, notify the
permit issuer in writing that no wildlife was captured under the
permit;




(c)

if the holder of the permit is under 19 years of age, the holder of
the permit may carry out the activities authorized by the permit only
if accompanied by a resident who is 19 years of age or over.

[am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 2.]





Sections 2 (j), (m), (n), (o) and 4 (b) permit requirements




10

(1)


A regional manager or the director, as applicable, must not issue a
permit with respect to live wildlife under section 2 (j), (m), (n),
(o) or 4 (b) unless the applicant has submitted a plan with the
applicant's permit application that demonstrates that public safety
will not be jeopardized by any activity to be undertaken under the
permit.




(2)

It is a term of every permit issued with respect to live wildlife
under sections 2 (j), (m), (n) and (o) and 4 (b) that the permit
holder comply with the plan submitted under subsection (1).




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a permit respecting a raptor used for
falconry purposes.

[am. B.C. Regs. 134/2002; 64/2021, s. 3.]





Exemption — feeding dangerous wildlife




11


A person who holds a permit under section 2 (h), (j), (m), (n) or (o)
or 4 (b) is exempt from section 33.1 of the Act for the purpose of
feeding dangerous wildlife held under the permit.






Conditions attached to live wildlife permits




12


A permit issued under section 2 (h), (j), (m) or (n) (i) or 4 (b) may
include




(a)

terms and conditions respecting the location, dimensions, construction
and maintenance of, and the materials to be used in constructing and
maintaining, enclosures for wildlife, and




(b)

terms and conditions intended to




(i)

protect against unnecessary suffering by the wildlife,




(ii)

provide adequate protection and shelter for the wildlife,




(iii)

facilitate safe and sanitary cleaning of the wildlife and enclosures,




(iv)

prevent the escape of the wildlife, and




(v)

prevent, by means of a secondary fence or barrier, members of the
public from coming into personal contact with an enclosure.






Record of live wildlife held requirement




13


The following are terms of every permit issued under section 2 (j):




(a)

the permit holder must maintain an accurate up to date record of the
wildlife held under the permit which shows all additions and deletions
from the record and which includes the following information:




(i)

the common name of the wildlife;




(ii)

the number, sex, maturity and condition of the wildlife;




(iii)

the name and address of the person or organization who provided the
wildlife;




(iv)

the name and address of the person or organization to whom the
wildlife was provided, if any;




(v)

the number of the permit under which the wildlife was captured,
transported or imported;




(vi)

the manner, form, locations and date of marking of wildlife taken from
the wild and the number and date of the official receipt for the
capture fee;




(b)

the permit holder must submit a copy of the record referred to in
paragraph (a) to the permit issuer within 21 days after the expiry
date of the permit;




(c)

the permit holder must produce a copy of the record referred to in
paragraph (a) on demand of an officer.






Record of wildlife killed requirement




14


The following are terms of every permit issued under section 2 (b),
(c) (i), (ii), (iv) or (v), (d), 3 (1) (a) or (d) or 3.1:




(a)

the permit holder must maintain an accurate up to date record of the
wildlife hunted, trapped or killed under the permit, which includes
the following information:




(i)

the common name of the wildlife;




(ii)

the location where the wildlife was taken;




(iii)

the date the wildlife was hunted, trapped or killed;




(iv)

the sex and age class of the wildlife taken;




(v)

the bands or tags on the wildlife;




(vi)

a description of all nests, dams or other structures destroyed or
removed;




(b)

the permit holder must submit the original record referred to in
paragraph (a) to the permit issuer within 21 days after the expiry
date of the permit;




(c)

the permit holder must produce a copy of the record referred to in
paragraph (a) on the demand of an officer.

[am. B.C. Reg. 19/2021, s. 3.]





Application of section 33 (2) of the Act




15

(1)


For the purposes of section 33 (2) of the Act, it is not an offence
for a person to possess




(a)

antlers,




(b)

bird feathers, except feathers from migratory insectivorous birds or
migratory nongame birds both as defined in the Convention appended to
the

Migratory Birds Convention Act, 1994

(Canada),




(c)

wildlife or parts of wildlife that were disposed of by the government
under section 46 of the

Financial Administration Act

, if




(i)

the person is in possession of the British Columbia Surplus Sales
Invoice for that wildlife or part, and




(ii)

the wildlife or part is tagged with a bar code or other marking that
matches the invoice described in subparagraph (i),




(d)

wildlife or parts of wildlife that was killed lawfully outside of
British Columbia and was subsequently brought into British Columbia in
a lawful manner,




(e)

wildlife or parts of wildlife that have been processed or manufactured
into a product that no longer resembles the original dead wildlife or
parts,




(f)

game meat, if the person possesses a written record issued by a food
bank or non-profit organization identifying the species of game meat
and stating that the meat is distributed under a permit issued under
section 2 (w), and




(g)

dead wildlife or wildlife parts under a permit.




(2)

The burden of proving an entitlement under subsection (1) (d) is on
the person claiming the exemption.




(3)

Subsection (1) (a), (d) and (e) does not apply to the possession of
any part of a caribou, deer, elk or moose that originated outside
British Columbia except




(a)

the edible meat of the four quarters, loins, neck and ribs, or




(b)

the hide, antlers and skull plate if, before being brought into
British Columbia, the part is cleaned in a manner that removes all
tissue.


[am. B.C. Regs. 358/2002, s. 3; 123/2010; 52/2018, Sch. 3, s. 2;
203/2022, App. 2.]






Permits under section 70 (1) (a) of the Act and offences




16

(1)


To be eligible for a permit under section 70 (1) (a) of the Act an
applicant must




(a)

be at least 19 years of age,




(b)

be a citizen or permanent resident of Canada, and




(c)

have




(i)

held a resident hunting licence and a species licence for big game for
3 of the 5 licence years immediately preceding the application for a
permit, or




(ii)

successfully completed the CORE program as defined in B.C. Reg. 53/98,
the Hunter Safety Training Regulation, and have held a resident
hunting licence and a species licence for big game for 2 of the 5
licence years immediately preceding the application for a permit.




(2)

A person is not eligible for a permit under section 70 (1) (a) of the
Act if




(a)

another permit under section 70 (1) (a) of the Act has been issued to
the person in the same licence year,




(b)

either the applicant or the non-resident or non-resident alien to whom
the permit would apply has been convicted of an offence




(i)

specified under section 84 (1) (a) of the Act within the 5 year period
immediately preceding the application for a permit, or




(ii)

specified under




(A)

section 84 (1) (b) of the Act, or




(B)

the

Firearm Act



within the 3 year period immediately preceding the application for a
permit, or




(c)

another permit under section 70 (1) (a) of the Act has been issued for
a different time period in the same licence year that applies to the
non-resident or non-resident alien whom the person will accompany
under the permit.




(3)

A permit must not be issued under section 70 (1) (a) of the Act




(a)

for a period of more than 21 days,




(b)

that applies to more than one region established by section 3 of B.C.
Reg. 190/84, the Hunting Regulation,




(c)

to allow the permit holder to accompany more than 2 non-residents or
non-resident aliens, or




(d)

to allow the permit holder to accompany a non-resident alien who is
not, in relation to the permit holder, a parent, sibling, child,
parent's sibling, sibling's child, grandchild, grandparent, spouse,
parent of a spouse, spouse of a child, sibling of a spouse or spouse
of a sibling.




(4)

A person commits an offence if the person




(a)

hunts big game while in the company of a non-resident or non-resident
alien who is hunting big game unless there is present a guide
outfitter, an assistant guide or a person who holds a permit under
section 70 (1) (a) of the Act that applies to that non-resident or
non-resident alien,




(b)

holds a permit under section 70 (1) (a) of the Act and, while
accompanying a non-resident or non-resident alien to which the permit
applies,




(i)

is not a resident,




(ii)

fails to hold a valid hunting licence, or




(iii)

fails to hold an uncancelled species licence for the species being
hunted, or




(c)

holds a permit under section 70 (1) (a) of the Act and fails to
accompany the non-resident or non-resident alien to which the permit
applies while that person is hunting big game unless a guide
outfitter, an assistant guide or another person who holds a permit
under section 70 (1) (a) of the Act that applies to the same
non-resident or non-resident alien is accompanying that non-resident
or non-resident alien.




(5)

If the circumstances of a person to whom a permit under section 70 (1)
(a) of the Act has been issued or of the non-resident or non-resident
alien to whom the permit applies change before the time specified in
the permit so that the person or the non-resident or non-resident
alien no longer meet the requirements of subsections (1), (2) and (3)
(d), the person commits an offence if the person carries out the
activities authorized by the permit.




(6)

A person who held a permit issued under section 70 (1) (a) of the Act
must, within 10 days after the hunt authorized by the permit is
concluded, submit a report containing the following information to the
permit issuer:




(a)

the name of the permit holder;




(b)

the name of the hunter accompanied by the permit holder;




(c)

the management unit and the location within the management unit where
the permit holder and the accompanied hunter hunted;




(d)

the dates that the permit holder and the accompanied hunter hunted and
the total number of days hunted;




(e)

the species hunted;




(f)

details in relation to each game animal killed including




(i)

species,




(ii)

sex,




(iii)

age class,




(iv)

the location where the game was killed,




(v)

the date when the game was killed, and




(vi)

if the permit holder, or accompanied hunter, who killed the game was
required to hold a species licence to hunt the game, the species
licence number of the species licence under which that game was
killed.




(6.1)

A person commits an offence if the person fails to submit a report as
required under subsection (6).




(7)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 1/2019, Sch. 3, s. 1 (d).]




(8)

A person who held a permit issued under section 70 (1) (a) of the Act
must, within 30 days after the hunt authorized by the permit is
concluded, submit royalties to the director for each animal taken by a
non-resident or non-resident alien under the permit, in the amount
provided in Schedule 1.06 of the Wildlife Act Commercial Activities
Regulation.




(9)

A person commits an offence if the person fails to pay royalties as
required under subsection (8).


[am. B.C. Regs. 142/2004; 127/2017, App. 6, ss. 2 and 3; 79/2018, App.
3, ss. 1 and 2; 159/2018, Sch. 2; 1/2019, Sch. 3; 230/2019, Sch. 2;
64/2021, s. 2; 76/2022, s. 11.]






Substitute guide permits and offence




17

(1)


A permit may be issued under section 2 (q) only if the guide outfitter
who has issued the written authorization to the applicant is unable to
exercise the guide outfitter's privileges and perform the guide
outfitter's duties under the Act because of illness or injury or other
special circumstance acceptable to the regional manager.




(2)

An assistant guide is not eligible for a permit under section 2 (q) if
the assistant guide




(a)

is under 18 years of age,




(b)

holds another permit under section 2 (q),




(c)

does not meet the qualifications described in sections 50 and 51 of
the Act, or




(d)

has been convicted of an offence




(i)

specified under section 84 (1) (a) of the Act, within the 5 year
period immediately preceding the application for a permit, or




(ii)

specified under




(A)

section 84 (1) (b) of the Act, or




(B)

the

Firearm Act

,


within the 3 year period immediately preceding the application for a
permit.




(3)

If the public liability insurance policy of the guide outfitter who
has issued the written authorization to the applicant insures the
applicant and any other assistant guides employed by that guide
outfitter, the applicant is exempt from section 51 (1) (c) of the Act.




(4)

A permit must not be issued under section 2 (q)




(a)

for a period that extends past the last day of the current licence
year,




(b)

that applies to more than one guide area, or




(c)

that applies to a guide area for which another permit under section 2
(q) is valid.




(5)

A person commits an offence if the person exercises the privileges or
performs the duties of a guide outfitter under a permit issued under
section 2 (q) and fails to comply with any requirement of the Act or
regulations pertaining to a guide outfitter except those set out in
subsection (7) (a).




(6)

If the circumstances of the assistant guide to whom a permit under
section 2 (q) has been issued or of the guide outfitter to whom the
permit relates change during the period specified in the permit so
that the assistant guide or the guide outfitter no longer meet the
requirements of subsections (1) and (2), the assistant guide commits
an offence if the assistant guide exercises the privileges or performs
the duties of a guide outfitter under the permit.




(7)

A guide outfitter for whom an assistant guide has obtained a permit
under section 2 (q)




(a)

remains responsible for complying with section 69 of the Act and
sections 1.01 and 1.06 of B.C. Reg. 338/82, the Wildlife Act
Commercial Activities Regulation, and




(b)

is exempt from sections 48 (3) and 55 of the Act until the expiry of
the permit.


[am. B.C. Regs. 18/2015, Sch. 2; 64/2021, ss. 2 and 3.]






Replacement ownership permit




18

(1)


A regional manager must not issue a permit under section 2 (y) in
relation to wildlife or a part of wildlife unless




(a)

the applicant signs a statement, in the form specified by the
director, that




(i)

a person acquired ownership of the wildlife or part under section 2
(2) or (3) of the Act, and




(ii)

the applicant owns the wildlife or part, and




(b)

in the case of a grizzly bear or a part of a grizzly bear, the
applicant has a certificate, issued by an officer,




(i)

stating that the officer has inspected the grizzly bear or part, and




(ii)

setting out the opinion of the officer on whether the grizzly bear
died before December 1, 2017.




(2)

The fee for a signed statement under subsection (1) is set out in
Schedule 3.


[am. B.C. Regs. 50/2016, s. 7; 52/2018, Sch. 3, s. 3.]






Commercial game club permits and offence




19

(1)


There is no bag limit or possession limit on game birds released and
subsequently taken on property operated under a permit issued under
section 2 (r).




(2)

A person who has in the person's possession, in a place other than on
property for which a permit under section 2 (r) has been issued, game
birds taken under the authority of a permit issued under section 2 (r)
must produce on demand of an officer a written record issued by the
permit holder identifying the location where the game birds were
taken.




(3)

A person must not hunt game birds under a permit issued under section
2 (r) during the period between April 1 and July 31.




(4)

A person who fails to comply with subsection (2) or (3) of this
section commits an offence.

[am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 3.]





Rehabilitation records and offence




20


The following are terms of every permit issued under section 2 (t):




(a)

the permit holder must maintain an accurate up to date record of the
wildlife held under the permit, showing all additions and deletions
from the record and including the following information:




(i)

the common name of the wildlife;




(ii)

the location where the wildlife was obtained;




(iii)

the date the wildlife was received;




(iv)

the sex, maturity and physical condition of the wildlife on receipt;




(v)

the bands or tags on the wildlife;




(vi)

the number of the permit under which the wildlife is held;




(vii)

the date and manner in which care of the wildlife was terminated;




(viii)

whichever of following applies:




(A)

if the wildlife died, the location of death;




(B)

if the wildlife was released, the location of release;




(C)

if the wildlife was transferred, the transfer destination;




(D)

if the wildlife is permanently held captive, the location of the
holding facility;




(b)

the permit holder must submit a copy of the record referred to in
paragraph (a) to the permit issuer within 21 days after the expiry
date of the permit;




(c)

the permit holder must produce a copy of the record referred to in
paragraph (a) on the demand of an officer.






Zoo permits




21

(1)


A permit must not be issued under section 2 (j) for the purpose of
operating a zoo for more than




(a)

20 elk over 2 years of age,




(b)

20 moose over 2 years of age,




(c)

20 caribou over 2 years of age,




(d)

20 female mule deer over 2 years of age,




(e)

20 male mule deer over 2 years of age,




(f)

20 female white-tailed deer over 2 years of age,




(g)

20 male white-tailed deer over 2 years of age,




(h)

30 female sitka deer over 2 years of age,




(i)

30 male sitka deer over 2 years of age,




(j)

30 female black-tailed deer over 2 years of age,




(k)

30 male black-tailed deer over 2 years of age,




(l)

40 bighorn sheep over 2 years of age,




(m)

20 stone sheep over 2 years of age,




(n)

20 Dall's sheep over 2 years of age,




(o)

20 mountain goats over 2 years of age,




(p)

6 black bears over 2 years of age,




(q)

6 grizzly bears over 2 years of age,




(r)

20 wolves over 2 years of age,




(s)

6 cougar over 2 years of age,




(t)

6 lynx over 2 years of age,




(u)

6 bobcat over 2 years of age, or




(v)

2 wolverines over 2 years of age.




(2)

An applicant for, and a holder of, a permit under section 2 (j) for
the purpose of operating a zoo must have and maintain public liability
and property damage insurance in the amount of not less than $1
million which must be




(a)

valid for the same term as the permit, and




(b)

applicable to the operation of a zoo.




(2.1)

An applicant for, and a holder of, a permit under section 4 (f) (ii)
for the purpose of operating a zoo must have and maintain public
liability and property damage insurance in the amount of not less than
$2 million which must be




(a)

valid for the same term as the permit, and




(b)

applicable to the operation of a zoo.




(3)

A person who fails to comply with subsection (2) or (2.1) commits an
offence.

[am. B.C. Reg. 120/2009, Sch. 3, s. 3.]





Time limitation on permits




22

(1)


Except as otherwise set out in this regulation, a permit issued under
section 2, 3, 3.1 or 4 must not be issued for a period of time greater
than 5 years from the date of issue.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a permit issued under section 2 (k),
(p), (x) or (y) or 4 (f).




(3)

Despite section 23 (1) and (3), if a regional manager issues a permit
under section 2 (a), (f), (h), (j), (l), (m), (r) or (z), 3 (1) (a),
(d), (f) or (g) or (2) or 3.1 of this regulation or section 7 (3) of
the Act for a period longer than one year, the fee and surcharge set
out in Schedule 2 or 3 are the annual fee and habitat conservation
trust fund surcharge that are to be charged for each full year or
portion of a year for which the permit is issued.


[am. B.C. Regs. 358/2002, s. 4; 120/2009, Sch. 2, s. 3; 19/2021, s.
4.]






Fees and exemptions




23

(1)


The fee and habitat conservation trust fund surcharge to be paid by




(a)

an applicant for a permit to capture wildlife under section 2 (h), and




(b)

the holder of a permit issued under section 2 (h) on capturing
wildlife

are set out in Schedule 2.



(2)

The fee and habitat conservation trust fund surcharge for a permit
under section 2 (p) is




(a)

double the amount set out in Schedule 3 if issued to a non-resident,
and




(b)

triple the amount set out in Schedule 3 if issued to a non-resident
alien.




(3)

The fees and habitat conservation trust fund surcharges for any permit
not referred to in subsection (1) or (2), including permits issued
under sections 7 (3) and 70 (1) (a) and (b) of the Act, are set out in
Schedule 3.




(4)

The following are exempt from paying fees and surcharges for the
specified permits:




(a)

a government agency or a person carrying out an activity on behalf of
a government agency for any permit;




(b)

a person issued a permit under section 2 (p) if the person is to
receive the dead wildlife or wildlife parts as compensation for
conducting work or an activity on behalf of the government;




(c)

a person issued a permit under section 2 (p) or (x) if a regional
manager is satisfied the dead wildlife or wildlife parts are being
given to a resident or an organization within British Columbia for a
charitable purpose;




(d)

a permit issued under section 3 (2) or 3.1 (1) (a) to a disabled
person for the purpose of allowing the person to hunt or trap during
an open season for game;




(e)

a permit issued under section 2 (j) to the following for their own
facility:




(i)

a municipality under the

Community Charter

;




(ii)

the City of Vancouver;




(f)

a person who requires a permit for the purposes of non-profit
scientific research.




(5)

If a single permit is issued to a person under more than one paragraph
or subparagraph of section 2, 3, 3.1 or 4, the person must pay the fee
and surcharge for the single most costly permit authorized by those
paragraphs and subparagraphs.




(6)

Unless a permit is one for which no fee and surcharge is set out in
Schedule 3, if a regional manager amends a permit under section 19 (4)
of the Act at the request of the permit holder, the permit holder must
pay the fee set out for a permit amendment in Schedule 3.


[am. B.C. Regs. 13/2006; 127/2017, App. 6, s. 2; 79/2018, App. 3, s.
1; 117/2018, s. 17; 19/2021, s. 5; 64/2021, s. 4.]






Export permit exemptions




24

(1)


If the holder of a species licence for big game takes any big game
under the licence and complies with the requirements of the Act and
regulations respecting the use of the licence and the taking of the
big game, the holder is exempt from section 21 (1) (b) of the Act with
respect to that big game for a period of one year from the
cancellation of the licence.




(2)

If the holder of a hunting licence, other than an initiation hunting
licence or a youth hunting licence, takes any small game under the
licence and complies with the requirements of the Act and regulations
respecting the use of the licence and the taking of the small game,
the holder is exempt from section 21 (1) (b) of the Act with respect
to that small game for a period of one year from the taking of that
small game.




(3)

If the holder of a hunting licence, other than an initiation hunting
licence or a youth hunting licence, takes a wolf under the licence
while the holder is a resident and complies with the requirements of
the Act and regulations respecting the use of the licence and the
taking of the wolf, the holder is exempt from section 21 (1) (b) of
the Act with respect to that wolf for a period of one year from the
taking of that wolf.




(4)

If the holder of an upland game bird licence takes an upland game bird
under the licence and complies with the requirements of the Act and
regulations respecting the use of the licence and the taking of the
upland game bird, the holder is exempt from section 21 (1) (b) of the
Act with respect to that upland game bird for a period of one year
from the taking of that upland game bird.




(5)

The exemptions provided under this section apply only if the holder of
the licence accompanies the game out of the Province.


[en. B.C. Reg. 270/2009; am. B.C. Regs. 38/2013, App. 4, s. 1 (a);
127/2017, App. 6, s. 4.]






Export permit exemptions — supervising hunter




24.1

(1)


If




(a)

the holder of an initiation hunting licence takes any game, and




(b)

the holder of the licence and the supervising hunter comply with the
requirements of the Act and regulations respecting any applicable
licences and the taking of the game,


the supervising hunter is exempt from section 21 (1) (b) of the Act
with respect to that game for a period of one year from the taking of
the game.




(2)

If




(a)

a person on whose behalf a youth hunting licence is held takes any
game, and




(b)

the person and the supervising hunter comply with the requirements of
the Act and regulations respecting any applicable licences and the
taking of the game,


the supervising hunter is exempt from section 21 (1) (b) of the Act
with respect to that game for a period of one year from the taking of
the game.




(3)

The exemptions provided under this section apply only if the
supervising hunter accompanies the game out of the Province.




(4)

In this section
"supervising hunter"
has the same meaning as in the Hunting Licensing Regulation.


[en. B.C. Reg. 38/2013, App. 4, s. 1 (b); am. B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App.
6, s. 5.]






CITES export requirements




25


Nothing in section 24 exempts a person from holding an export permit
issued under the


Wild Animal and Plant Protection and Regulation of International
and Interprovincial Trade Act


(Canada) for a species of wildlife listed in an Appendix to the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora.






Export exemption for shipping within British Columbia




26


A person who mails or commercially ships wildlife or parts of wildlife
is exempt from section 21 (1) (b) of the Act if the final destination
of the wildlife or parts of wildlife is a place within British
Columbia.






Export permit exemption — passing through British Columbia




27

(1)


A person is exempt from section 21 (1) (b) of the Act in respect of
dead wildlife or parts of wildlife if




(a)

the person holds a permit issued by a jurisdiction other than British
Columbia authorizing the export of the dead wildlife or parts of
wildlife from that jurisdiction to a jurisdiction other than British
Columbia,




(b)

the permit is not expired, suspended or cancelled at the time the dead
wildlife or parts of wildlife are exported from British Columbia,




(c)

the permit contains the information set out in subsection (2), and




(d)

the permit accompanies the dead wildlife or parts of wildlife out of
British Columbia.




(2)

A permit referred to in subsection (1) must include all of the
following information:




(a)

the name of the person to whom the permit was issued;




(b)

the type of dead wildlife or parts of wildlife being exported;




(c)

the name of the jurisdiction that issued the permit;




(d)

the destination of the dead wildlife or parts of wildlife being
exported.

[en. B.C. Reg. 79/2018, App. 3, s. 3.]



Schedule 1

[am. B.C. Reg. 120/2009, Sch. 2, ss. 4 and 5.]

[Section 7 (1)]


For the purposes of section 7 (1), live import permits must not be
issued for the following wildlife:






1


Mammals of the following species:




(a)

all species of the family
Cervidae
— deer family;




(b)

all species of the family
Talpidae
— moles;




(c)

all species of the family
Vespertilionidae
— vespertilionid bats;




(d)

all species of the subfamily
Arvicolinae
— voles and lemmings;




(e)

all species of the subfamily
Sigmodontinae
— new world rats and mice;




(f)

all species of the family
Dipodidae
— jumping mice and jerboas;




(g)

all species of the family
Leporidae
— hares and rabbits except for
Oryctolagus cuniculus
— European rabbit;




(h)

all species of the genus
Glaucomys
— flying squirrels;




(i)

all species of the genus
Marmota
— marmots and woodchucks except for
Marmota vancouverensis
— Vancouver Island marmot;




(j)

all species of the genus
Sciurus
— gray and fox squirrels;




(k)

all species of the genus
Tamias
— chipmunks;




(l)

all species of the genus
Erinaceus
— hedgehogs;




(m)

all species of the genus
Peromyscus
— deer mice;




(n)

all species of the genus
Cynomys
— prairie dogs;




(o)

Nyctinomops macrotis
— big free-tailed bat;




(p)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 120/2009, Sch. 2, s. 4.]




(q)

Procyon lotor
— raccoon;




(r)

Mephitis mephitis
— striped skunk;




(s)

Spilogale putorius
— spotted skunk;




(t)

Didelphis virginiana
— North American opossum;




(u)

Vulpes vulpes
— fox;




(v)

Alopex lagopus
— arctic fox;




(w)

Vulpes macrotis
— kit fox;




(x)

Neotoma cinerea
— bushy-tailed wood rat;




(y)

Thomomys talpoides
— northern pocket gopher;




(z)

Myocastor coypus
— nutria.







2


Birds of the following species:




(a)

all species of eagles that are not indigenous to British Columbia;




(b)

African and Eurasian Eagle-owls;




(c)

Sturnus vulgaris
— European starling.







3


Amphibians of the following species:




(a)

all species of the family
Ranidae
— true frogs;




(b)

all species of the genus
Bufo
— toads.







4


Reptiles of the following species:




(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 120/2009, Sch. 2, s. 5.]




(b)

all species of the family
Trionychidae
— soft-shelled turtles;




(c)

all species of the family
Emydidae
— pond and river turtles;




(d)

all species of the family
Chelydridae
— snapping turtles;




(e)

all species of the genus
Podarcis
— wall lizards.




Schedule 2

[am. B.C. Reg. 37/2004, s. (a).]

[section 23 (1)]






1


The fee for a permit issued under section 2 (h) is $100 and the
habitat conservation trust fund surcharge to be paid is $10.







2


In addition to the fee prescribed in section 1 of this schedule, on
capture under a permit issued under section 2 (h) of the wildlife set
out in Column 1 of the following table, the fee and surcharge set out
in Columns 2 and 3 of the table must be paid under section 23 (1):







Column 1

Wildlife




Column 2

Fee $




Column 3

Surcharge $






peregrine falcon or gyrfalcon
200
40


any other raptor
25
30


black-tailed deer
120
35


mule or white-tailed deer
180
35


fallow deer
25
5


black bear
180
35


caribou
240
50


elk
300
60


moose
300
60


cougar
360
75


mountain goat
360
75


mountain sheep
600
120


grizzly bear
900
180


wolf
100
30


bison
100
30


lynx
100
30


bobcat
100
30


wolverine
100
30



a fur bearing animal (any number) not listed above

100
30



any species of wildlife (any number) not listed above

25
30





Schedule 3


[en. B.C. Reg. 37/2004, s. (b); am. B.C. Regs. 120/2009, Sch. 2, s. 6
and Sch. 3, s. 4; 50/2016, s. 8; 19/2021, s. 6.]






1


For the purposes of sections 18 and 23 (2), (3) and (6), the fee set
out in Column 3 and the surcharge set out in Column 4 must be paid for
a permit issued under the section set out in Column 1 generally or for
the wildlife, purpose or method specified in Column 2, if any, of
following table:







Column 1

Permit

(section number)




Column 2

Wildlife, Purpose, or Method




Column 3

Fee $




Column 4

Surcharge $






2 (a)

50
50


2 (b) (i)

50
5


2 (b) (ii)

50
5


2 (c) (i)

100
10


2 (c) (ii)

100
10


2 (c) (iii)

100
10


2 (c) (iv)

-
-


2 (c) (v)

-
-


2 (d)

50
30


2 (e)

50
5


2 (f) (i)

25
5


2 (f) (ii)

100
10


2 (f) (iii)

25
5


2 (g)

25
5


2 (i)

50
5


2 (j)

(a) for a commercial operation or a non-commercial operation where
the wildlife is on public display

100
30



(b) all other circumstances
50
5


2 (k)

(a) for a scientific or educational purpose

50
5




(b) for a ceremonial or societal purpose

-
-


2 (l)

50
5


2 (m)

50
5


2 (n)
(a) for personal use
25
5



(b) for any other purpose
50
5


2 (o)

50
5


2 (p)

For the following wildlife or any part of the wildlife:






(a) a raptor
35
30



(b) any other bird
16
15




(c) a fur bearing animal except big game species

16
15



(d) deer or black bear
31
30



(e) elk or moose
41
30



(f) cougar or mountain goat
46
30



(g) mountain sheep
66
30



(h) grizzly bear
91
30



(i) bison
86
30



(j) wolf
16
30



(k) lynx, bobcat or wolverine
24
30




(l) any species of wildlife not listed in paragraphs (a) to (k)

10
15


2 (q)

50
5


2 (r)

100
30


2 (s)

-
-


2 (t)

-
-


2 (u)

-
-


2 (v)

-
-


2 (w)

-
-


2 (x)

25
5


2 (y)

25
5


2 (z)

25
5


2.1

50
5


3 (1) (a)

50
5


3 (1) (b)

50
5


3 (1) (d)

50
5


3 (1) (e)

50
5


3 (1) (f)

50
5


3 (1) (g)

50
5


3 (2)

50
5


3 (3)

25
5


3.1 (1)

50
5


4 (a) (i)

-
-


4 (a) (ii)

-
-


4 (b)
(a) for personal use
25
5



(b) for any other purpose
50
5


4 (c)

25
5


4 (d)

-
-


4 (e)

-
-


4 (f)

-
-


4 (g)

-
-


4 (h)

-
-


18 (2)
signed statement
10
-


23 (6)
permit amendment
25
5


7 (3) of the Act

100
50



70 (1) (a) of the Act


50
5



70 (1) (b) of the Act


100
50



For an expedited request the amount that must be paid for a permit
is double the fee set out in Column 3 and double the surcharge set
out in Column 4.





[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Wildlife Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 488, s. 108.]



