







B.C. Reg. 78/2015

O.C. 267/2015


Deposited May 22, 2015






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Provincial Symbols and Honours Act


Police Officer Commissions Regulation






Definitions and interpretation




1

(1)


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Provincial Symbols and Honours Act

;



"director of police services"

has the same meaning as "director" in the

Police Act

;



"provincial constable"

means a provincial constable within the meaning of the

Police Act

;



"serious disciplinary or corrective measures"

means any of the disciplinary or corrective measures referred to in
section 126 (1) (a) to (h) of the

Police Act

;



"service record of discipline"

means a service record of discipline within the meaning of the

Police Act

.




(2)

In respect of an officer who is a designated constable, deputy chief
officer or chief officer of a designated policing unit,




(a)

the meaning set out in subsection (1) for "serious disciplinary or
corrective measures" is subject to any changes made by regulation
under section 184 (2) (i) of the

Police Act

in relation to any of the disciplinary or corrective measures referred
to in section 126 (1) (a) to (h) of that Act, and




(b)

the meaning set out in subsection (1) for "service record of
discipline" is subject to any changes made by regulation under
section 184 (2) (i) of the Police Act in relation to any of the
provisions of that Act that relate to service records of discipline.




(3)

For certainty, a service record of discipline does not include records
that, under section 180 (8) of the

Police Act

, have been expunged from the service record of discipline.






Prescribed criteria for officer commissions




2

(1)


This section sets out the prescribed criteria for an officer for the
purposes of section 22 (b) of the Act.




(2)

The officer's service record of discipline must not include any record
of serious disciplinary or corrective measures imposed in relation to,
or accepted by, that officer.




(3)

The officer must be recommended for a commission by way of a written
recommendation to the minister made by the director of police services
or by,




(a)

in the case of an officer who is a municipal constable of a municipal
police department, the chief constable of the municipal police
department,




(b)

in the case of an officer who is a chief constable of a municipal
police department, the municipal police board of the municipal police
department,




(c)

in the case of an officer who is a designated constable or deputy
chief officer of a designated policing unit, the chief officer of the
designated policing unit, and




(d)

in the case of an officer who is a chief officer of a designated
policing unit, the designated board that governs the designated
policing unit.






Prescribed qualifications for officer commissions




3

(1)


This section sets out the prescribed qualifications for an officer for
the purposes of section 22 (c) of the Act.




(2)

The officer must have




(a)

10 or more years of service as an officer, or




(b)

a combined total of 10 or more years of service as an officer or a
provincial constable.




(3)

The officer must have at least one of the following:




(a)

a baccalaureate degree or masters degree, or a degree equivalent to a
baccalaureate degree or masters degree;




(b)

the rank of inspector or higher for 4 or more years during the period
the officer has served as an officer.






Matters to be confirmed in written recommendation




4


A written recommendation referred to in section 2 (3) must include the
following:




(a)

confirmation of the officer's rank;




(b)

confirmation that the officer meets the criteria for a commission
prescribed by section 2 (2);




(c)

confirmation that the officer has the qualifications for a commission
prescribed by section 3.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Provincial Symbols and Honours Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 380, section 24]



