







B.C. Reg. 564/76

O.C. 3135/76


Filed October 25, 1976






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Police Act


Police (Uniforms) Regulations


[Last amended February 28, 2020 by B.C. Reg. 40/2020]






Interpretation




1


In these regulations:



"executive officer"

means chief constable and deputy chief constable;



"medium blue"

means a shade of blue similar to the blue quoted in the Dominion
Textile folder — "rogue cloth #C1754";


"officer"
means all other ranks;



"senior officer"

means all commissioned ranks other than an executive officer;


"uniform"
means the basic working uniform worn during a normal tour of duty, but
does not include an administrative, formal or dress uniform.






Application of regulations




2

(1)


These regulations apply only to municipal forces established under
section 26 of the

Police Act

, and take effect on October 1, 1976.




(2)

These regulations do not apply to uniforms and accessories on order on
that day, or in stock or in use on or before that day, but full
compliance is required by October 1, 1979.






Basic uniform




3

(1)


The uniform for executive officers (male) shall be as follows:




(a)

cloth — dark navy blue;




(b)

jacket design — Eisenhower style, single breasted front closing, 2
patch type breast pockets, shoulder straps, gold buttons;




(c)

trouser design — western style slack design, 2 front pockets, 2 rear
pockets, special pockets as required, medium blue stripe 3/4 inch wide
from waist to cuff.




(2)

The uniform for senior officers (male) shall be as follows:




(a)

cloth — dark navy blue;




(b)

jacket design — Eisenhower style, single breasted front closing, 2
patch type breast pockets, shoulder straps, silver buttons;




(c)

trouser design — western style slack design, 2 front pockets, 2 rear
pockets, special pockets as required, medium blue stripe 3/4 inch wide
from waist to cuff.




(3)

The uniform for officers (male) shall be as follows:




(a)

cloth — dark navy blue;




(b)

jacket design — Eisenhower style, single breasted front closing, 2
patch type breast pockets, shoulder straps, silver buttons;




(c)

trouser design — western style slack design, 2 front pockets, 2 rear
pockets, special pockets as required, medium blue stripe 3/4 inch wide
from waist to cuff.




(4)

The uniform for all ranks (female) shall be as follows:




(a)

cloth — dark navy blue;




(b)

jacket design — Eisenhower style, single breasted front closing, 2
patch type pockets, shoulder straps, silver or gold buttons
appropriate to rank;




(c)

slack design — western style slack design, pockets as required, medium
blue stripe 3/4 inch wide from waist to cuff;




(d)

culottes and (or) skirt design — "A" line style, knee length, one
slash pocket in each side seam.




(5)

Shirts or blouses for all ranks shall be medium or navy blue with
shoulder straps of contrasting dark navy blue, 2 breast flap pockets
with suitable buttons or snap fasteners.




(6)





(a)

All ranks shall wear dark navy blue clip on ties.




(b)

A person of any rank may remove a tie when the person is




(i)

wearing a short sleeved shirt or blouse, as the case may be, and




(ii)

not wearing a uniform jacket, patrol jacket or windbreaker.




(7)





(a)

All ranks (male) shall wear navy blue or black socks.




(b)

All ranks (female) shall wear a neutral or navy blue shade of hosiery.




(8)

All ranks shall wear black oxfords or boots as directed by the chief
constable.




(9)

Handbags, when carried by female ranks, shall be plain black leather
with shoulder length strap.




(10)

All leather accessories shall be black, of good quality, with the
following description:




(a)

equipment belt — plain finish, 2 1/4 inch wide, fully lined, silver
fasteners;




(b)

holster — plain finish, worn strong side at waist level;




(c)

handcuff pouch — plain finish, attached to equipment belt;




(d)

ammunition pouch — plain finish, closed style, attached to equipment
belt.




(11)

A member (male) of any rank who is a baptized practising member of the
Sikh religion may:




(a)

wear under the prescribed uniform a replica of the kirpan;




(b)

wear on the wrist a kara (steel bracelet) with a maximum width of 5
mm;




(c)

wear under the turban a khanga (comb);




(d)

keep the hair and beard uncut provided that it is kept neat with the
hair tied in a bun and concealed under the issued turban.


[am. B.C. Regs. 20/80, s. 1; 346/93, s. 1; 315/97, s. (a); 40/2020,
App. 1, s. 1.]






Outer wear




4

(1)


Overcoats for all ranks shall be as follows:




(a)

cloth — dark navy blue;




(b)

design — military style.




(2)

Windbreaker/parka for all ranks shall be as follows:




(a)

cloth — dark navy blue;




(b)

design —




(i)

windbreaker — front closure, single breasted, hip length, waterproof
shell, 2 patch breast pockets, 2 inside lower pockets, shoulder
straps, silver or gold buttons appropriate to rank, side vents to
allow access to equipment;




(ii)

parka — front closure, single breasted, finger tip or longer in
length, waterproof shell, 2 patch breast pockets, 2 patch lower
pockets, 2 inside breast pockets, storm cuffs, waist draw cord,
convertible collar with detachable hood.




(3)

Rainwear for all ranks shall be as follows:




(a)

cloth — dark navy blue, with reversible side of safety orange when
issued to members on field assignment, but black may be worn by
non-operational members;




(b)

design — full length, raglan sleeve, nylon, snap front, 2 side slash
pockets.




(4)

Patrol jacket for all ranks shall be as follows:




(a)

cloth — nylon, dark navy blue;




(b)

design — Eisenhower style, single breasted front closing, 2 patch type
breast pockets, shoulder straps, silver or gold buttons appropriate to
rank.

[am. B.C. Reg. 20/80, s. 2.]





Headgear




5

(1)


The headgear of all ranks shall be as follows:




(a)

cloth — dark navy blue, with black band;




(b)

design —




(i)

executive — officer's cap, black peak with gold bar embroidery, gold
buttons, black strap, municipal cap badge in gold;




(ii)

senior — officer's cap, black peak with silver bar embroidery, silver
buttons, black strap, municipal cap badge;




(iii)

officer — officer's cap, black peak, black buttons, black strap,
municipal cap badge;




(iv)

any rank (male) of a baptized practising member of the Sikh religion —
in place of other headgear described in this paragraph, a turban of
the colour specified in paragraph (a), with a municipal cap badge
centred on its front.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 102/89.]




(3)

The headgear for all ranks while riding a motorcycle shall be a safety
helmet approved by the Canadian Standards Association and shall be
white with navy blue trim.

[am. B.C. Regs. 102/89; 346/93, s. 2.]





Special uniforms




6


Special uniforms, i.e. motorcycle operators, dog handlers, mounted
squad, bicycle squad, emergency response team, marine division, shall
be as follows:




(a)

cloth — dark navy blue, with contrasting stripe of medium blue where
practical;




(b)

design — functional in relation to assignment and subject to the
approval of the director.


[am. B.C. Regs. 315/97, s. (b); 40/2020, App. 1, s. 2.]






Insignia




7

(1)


The following ranks shall wear on their shoulder straps the insignia
described as follows:






(a) chief constable — a single crown above 3 pips, in gold;








(b) deputy chief constable — a single crown above 2 pips, in
gold;








(c) superintendent — a single crown above a single pip, in
silver;








(d) staff inspector — a single crown, in silver;








(e) inspector — 3 pips, in silver.










(2)

The following ranks shall wear on the upper part of each sleeve the
following cloth insignia:






(a) staff sergeant — 3 chevrons and a crown;







(b) sergeant — 3 chevrons;






(c) corporal — 2 chevrons.






All chevrons will be silver on black.



(3)

The following ranks shall wear, on their jacket lapels, badges
depicting the municipal crest or maple leaf; gold for executive
officers and silver for other ranks:




(a)

chief constable;




(b)

deputy chief constable;




(c)

superintendent;




(d)

staff inspector;




(e)

inspector;




(f)

staff sergeant;




(g)

sergeant;




(h)

corporal.




(4)

Cloth shoulder flashes identifying the municipal force shall be worn
on all garments except rainwear; gold for executive officers and
silver for all other ranks.




(5)

Design and placement of special badges awarded for special reasons
such as dog handler, marksman, etc., shall be subject to the approval
of the director.




(6)

(a) Service badges awarded on the basis of one for each 5 years
of service shall be a cloth, 5 pointed star, silver, not larger than
3/4 inch in size, worn on the lower sleeve of the left arm.




(b)

A long service ribbon and bar may be worn in place of service badges.


[am. B.C. Regs. 404/87, s. 1; 40/2020, App. 1, s. 2.]






Identification




8

(1)


A badge, metal, plastic or cloth, bearing an identification number or
name, shall be worn above the right breast pocket of all uniform
officers, but the wearing of an identification badge by executive and
senior officers shall be at the discretion of the chief constable.




(2)

Pocket badges depicting the municipal crest and suitably marked
"POLICE" shall be issued by each municipality.




(3)

An identification card, wallet size, white with dark blue printing,
shall be issued to each member and




(a)

the front side shall




(i)

clearly identify the municipality (municipal crest optional), the name
of the police department, and the full name and present rank of the
holder, and shall bear a photograph of the holder, black and white or
colour, in the top right corner and the signature of the chief
constable in the bottom right side, and




(ii)

in the case of an executive or senior officer, bear the signature of
the chairman of the board instead of the chief constable, and




(b)

the reverse side shall clearly state the date of birth, height,
weight, colour of hair, colour of eyes and blood group of the holder
and shall bear the holder's signature and, under the holder's
signature, the following shall appear: The person identified herein is
a Peace Officer appointed under the authority of section 26 of the

Police Act

.


[am. B.C. Regs. 601/77; 20/80, s. 3; 404/87, s. 2; 170/2006; 40/2020,
App. 1, s. 3.]






Miscellaneous




9


Styles and character of administrative, formal or dress uniforms are
at the discretion of the chief constable and are subject to the
approval of the director.

[am. B.C. Reg. 40/2020, App. 1, s. 2.]





Previous regulations repealed




10


These regulations apply to municipal forces as established under
section 26 of the

Police Act

and supersede all previous regulations governing those municipal
forces in matters covered by these regulations, and all such
regulations are repealed.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Police Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 367, s. 74.]



