







B.C. Reg. 303/2016

O.C. 916/2016


Deposited December 8, 2016

effective January 1, 2017





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Animal Health Act


Poultry Health and Buying Regulation

[Last amended March 11, 2021 by B.C. Reg. 64/2021]



Part 1 — Definition





Definition




1


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Animal Health Act

.




Part 2 — Poultry Health Program





Definitions




2


In this Part:



"breeding flock"

means chickens and turkeys located on a premises for the purpose of
producing hatching eggs to be used to




(a)

establish, continue or improve parent lines from which chickens or
turkeys used to produce commercial stock may be produced, or




(b)

produce commercial stock;



"poultry health program"

means the animal health program described in section 4
[poultry health program]
.






Keeping breeding flocks




3


Keeping a breeding flock is prescribed as a regulated activity for the
purposes of the Act.






Poultry health program




4

(1)


The poultry health program is established as an animal health program
under the Act.




(2)

The purpose of the poultry health program is as follows:




(a)

to ensure that operators are using appropriate preventive measures to
prevent, to the extent reasonably possible, the presence, transmission
or spread of notifiable and reportable diseases among breeding flocks;




(b)

to monitor compliance, by an operator, with sections 3 and 20 of the
Act with respect to the operator's breeding flock;




(c)

to confirm that breeding flocks located in areas specified by the
chief veterinarian are free of notifiable and reportable diseases.






Program inspections




5

(1)


In this section,
"board"
means a commission or marketing board under the

Natural Products Marketing (BC) Act

.




(2)

To identify operators who may be keeping breeding flocks, an inspector
may request from a board the following information:




(a)

the names and contact information of persons registered with the board
as persons who keep breeding flocks;




(b)

the location of breeding flocks known to the board.




(3)

An inspector may take an action described in sections 23 (1) and 24 of
the Act for the purpose of the poultry health program.




(4)

Without limiting section 24 (1) (d) of the Act, an inspector may
request an operator to produce for inspection any record the operator
is required by a board to keep in relation to the operator's breeding
flock.






Program preventive measures




6

(1)


For the purpose of the poultry health program, an operator must take
the following preventive measures as directed, in writing, by an
inspector:




(a)

have the operator's breeding flock examined by a veterinarian;




(b)

have the veterinarian




(i)

take blood or other samples from birds in the breeding flock, and




(ii)

send the samples to a laboratory for diagnostic examination.




(2)

Without limiting any power of an inspector under section 5 (2) (f) or
24 (1) of the Act, an inspector may, for the purpose of the poultry
health program, require an operator to comply with one or more
standards, measures, requirements or recommendations contained in
either of the following publications:




(a)

"BC Poultry Biosecurity Reference Guide", published by the BC Poultry
Association and as revised December 2012;




(b)

the "Code of Practice for the Care and Handling of Hatching Eggs,
Breeders, Chickens and Turkeys", published by the National Farm Animal
Care Council, 2016.




Part 3 — Poultry Buying





Definitions




7


In this Part:


"poultry"
means chicken, chicken capon, fowl, turkey, duck and geese;


"producer"
means a farmer who transports or distributes only poultry raised on
the farmer's own farm;


"slaughter"
means to kill poultry and remove the blood, feathers, head, legs at
the hock joints, entrails and internal organs from the carcass;



"slaughterhouse"

means a place where poultry are slaughtered or held for slaughter.

[am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 3.]





Distribution by producer to consumers




8

(1)


The distribution, by a producer, of slaughtered poultry is prescribed
as a regulated activity for the purposes of the Act.




(2)

A producer must not engage in a regulated activity prescribed under
this section unless all of the following conditions are met:




(a)

the poultry was slaughtered by a person




(i)

permitted to acquire live poultry for the purpose of slaughter and
resale under section 9 (2)
[acquisition for slaughter and resale]
, or




(ii)

licensed under the Meat Inspection Regulation to slaughter poultry;




(b)

the producer distributes the slaughtered poultry only




(i)

from the producer's farm or residence, and




(ii)

to persons buying the slaughtered poultry for personal use and not for
resale.




(3)

A producer who distributes slaughtered poultry in accordance with this
section must keep a record of the following:




(a)

for each distribution, the amount of poultry distributed and the date;




(b)

the name and contact information of the person who slaughtered the
poultry.




(4)

A producer must ensure that all records that must be kept under
subsection (3) are kept




(a)

in the form and manner required by the chief veterinarian, and




(b)

for a period of at least 2 years.






Acquisition for slaughter and resale




9

(1)


The acquisition of live poultry for the purpose of slaughter and
resale is prescribed as a regulated activity for the purposes of the
Act.




(2)

A person must not engage in a regulated activity prescribed under this
section unless the person




(a)

is licensed as a poultry buyer or is an employee, within the meaning
of section 10 of the Act, of a person who is licensed as a poultry
buyer, and




(b)

slaughters poultry only in a slaughterhouse identified in the poultry
buyer's licence.






How to apply for licence




10

(1)


An applicant for a licence as a poultry buyer, including an applicant
to renew a licence, must include with the application a fee as
follows:




(a)

for a single slaughterhouse, $45;




(b)

for multiple slaughterhouses,




(i)

$45 with respect to the first location, and




(ii)

$23 with respect to each additional location.




(2)

An application for renewal must




(a)

be made on or before the last day of February, and




(b)

include a statement of the total purchase price of all poultry bought,
under the licence to be renewed, by or on behalf of the licensee in
the previous calendar year.




(3)

If an applicant for a poultry buyers licence is not an individual, the
applicant must include with the application, in addition to any other
information required by the chief veterinarian, the name and contact
information of the individual who is authorized to act under this
regulation on behalf of the licensee if the licence is issued.






Issuance of licence




11

(1)


The chief veterinarian must not issue a poultry buyers licence to an
applicant who does not have security as required by section 12
[licensees must be secured]
unless the licence




(a)

is issued on a temporary basis only, and




(b)

includes as a condition that the licence holder must obtain security
as required by section 12.




(2)

If the chief veterinarian issues a poultry buyers licence to an
applicant who is not an individual,




(a)

the chief veterinarian must state on the licence the name of the
individual referred to in section 10 (3)
[how to apply for licence]
, and




(b)

the only person who may engage in the regulated activity prescribed
under section 9 (1)
[regulated activities]
on behalf of the licensee is the individual named on the licence under
paragraph (a) of this subsection.




(3)

If requested by a licensee in writing, the chief veterinarian may
amend the licensee's licence to substitute another individual who is
authorized under subsection (2) (b) to act on behalf of the licensee.




(4)

A person may hold more than one licence, but must hold a separate
licence in respect of each slaughterhouse at which the person intends
to engage in the regulated activity prescribed under section 9 (1).






Licensees must be secured




12


A person licensed as a poultry buyer must deliver to the chief
veterinarian, in respect of each poultry buyers licence the person
holds, security against default by the licensee of payment of money
due for the purchase price of poultry bought by or on behalf of the
licensee as follows:




(a)

the security must be in the form of either or both of the following:




(i)

an irrevocable letter of credit issued by a savings institution;




(ii)

a surety bond issued by a person authorized under the

Financial Institutions Act

, or an enactment of any jurisdiction of Canada other than British
Columbia, to carry on insurance business;




(b)

the security must be in favour of Her Majesty the Queen in right of
the Province of British Columbia as obligee;




(c)

the security must be continuous until the earlier of




(i)

one year past the expiry of the licence, and




(ii)

release under section 15
[claims against and release of security]
;




(d)

the amount of the security must be at least the amount set out in
Column 2 of the following table opposite the range set out in Column 1
that applies to the purchase price stated under section 10 (2) (b)
[how to apply for licence]
:





Column 1

Purchase price of poultry

bought in last 12 months


Column 2

Minimum amount of security





< $50 000
$5 000



$50 000 ≤ $1 000 000

$20 000


> $1 000 000
$50 000



[am. B.C. Reg. 10/2017.]





Records of poultry buyers




13

(1)


In this section,
"transaction"
means the acquisition of one or more live poultry from a producer by a
person who holds a poultry buyers licence.




(2)

A licensee must provide to a producer a record of all of the following
in respect of each transaction:




(a)

the number and kind of poultry acquired;




(b)

the date on which the poultry was acquired.




(3)

A licensee must keep records of at least the following in relation to
each transaction:




(a)

a copy of the record referred to in subsection (2);




(b)

the name and contact information of the producer;




(c)

a description of any identifying numbers, tags or marks associated
with the acquired poultry;




(d)

the name and address of the person to whom the slaughtered poultry was
disposed of;




(e)

if transported by the licensee or a person acting on behalf of the
licensee,




(i)

the place from which, and the place to which, the poultry was
transported, and




(ii)

the dates of transportation.




(4)

A licensee must ensure that all records that must be kept under
subsection (3) are kept




(a)

in the form and manner required by the chief veterinarian, and




(b)

for a period of at least 2 years.






Licensing action for insufficient security




14

(1)


The chief veterinarian may suspend a poultry buyers licence if
security delivered under section 12
[licensees must be secured]
in respect of that licence is drawn down to an amount that is less
than the amount required under section 12 (d).




(2)

For the purpose of ensuring the effective operation of this
regulation, the chief veterinarian may disclose to the public




(a)

the name and contact information of a licensee whose licence is
suspended under this section,




(b)

the name and address of the slaughterhouse identified in the suspended
licence, and




(c)

the fact of the suspension.




(3)

The chief veterinarian may lift a suspension if the amount of security
is reinstated to at least the amount required under section 12 (d)
within 30 days from the date of the suspension.




(4)

If a suspension is not lifted under subsection (3), the chief
veterinarian may cancel the licence as of the end of the 30 day period
described in that subsection.






Claims against and release of security




15

(1)


This section applies if either of the following occurs:




(a)

the chief veterinarian




(i)

receives notice, in writing, that a person who holds a poultry buyers
licence is in default on the payment of money due in respect of the
acquisition of poultry under the licence, and




(ii)

is satisfied as to the validity of the claim made in the notice;




(b)

the chief veterinarian receives notice, in writing, that a former
licensee




(i)

owes no money in respect of the acquisition of poultry under the
licence, and




(ii)

is seeking release of security under this section.




(2)

On the occurrence of an event described in subsection (1), the chief
veterinarian may do the following:




(a)

give notice of the event to the public;




(b)

state in the notice that any person owed money by the licensee or
former licensee in respect of the acquisition of poultry under the
licensee's or former licensee's licence may make a claim by giving
particulars of the indebtedness to the chief veterinarian by the date
and in the manner specified in the notice;




(c)

if applicable, state in the notice that the distribution of net
proceeds recovered by the government under the security held in
respect of the licensee or former licensee will be proportionate to
the claims received under paragraph (b) and verified.




(3)

The period for making a claim under subsection (2) (b) must be at
least 90 days beginning from the date the notice was first made
public.




(4)

The chief veterinarian may not release security held in respect of a
former licensee




(a)

for at least the period for making a claim as stated under
subsection (2) (b), or




(b)

if no notice was given under subsection (2) (a), for at least 90 days
after receiving the notice under subsection (1) (b).






Expiry of licence




16


A poultry buyers licence expires on




(a)

March 31 of the year immediately following the year in which the
licence was issued, unless renewed before that date, or




(b)

an earlier date, if any, set by the chief veterinarian under section
11 (2) (d) or (e) of the Act.






Offences




17


A person who contravenes any of the following provisions commits an
offence:




(a)

section 8 (2) or 9 (2)
[unlawfully engaging in regulated activity]
;




(b)

section 8 (3) or (4) or 13
[failure to keep records as required]
.






Repealed




18


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 303/2016, s. 18 (2).]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Animal Health Act

, S.B.C. 2014, c. 16, ss. 93, 94, 95, 96, 97 and 98.]



