







B.C. Reg. 368/2010

M361/2010


Deposited December 15, 2010






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to Point in Time




Clean Energy Act


Smart Meters and Smart Grid Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 405/2012, December 27, 2012]






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Clean Energy Act

;



"automation-enabled device"

means a device that, when installed on the authority's electric
system, is capable of being used by the authority, at a location
remote from the device, to control the flow of electricity;



"connectivity model"

means a computer model of the electric distribution system identifying
all of the following:




(a)

the locations at which eligible premises are connected to the electric
distribution system;




(b)

the locations known to the authority at which unmetered buildings,
structures or equipment are connected to the electric distribution
system;




(c)

the locations of




(i)

distribution transformers,




(ii)

distribution circuit conductors,




(iii)

substations,




(iv)

system devices, and




(v)

switches,


that are within the electric distribution system;




(d)

the locations of generators connected to the electric distribution
system;




(e)

the phase and direction of the electricity flowing through the
conductors referred to in paragraph (c);




(f)

whether or which of the distribution circuit conductors connected to
switches referred to in paragraph (c) are energized;



"electric distribution system"

means the equipment of the authority that is energized at less than 60
kilovolts and is used by the authority to provide electricity at less
than 60 kilovolts;



"electricity balance analysis"

means an analysis of the electricity in a portion of the electric
distribution system, including an analysis of the amount of
electricity that




(a)

is measured by the smart meters at all eligible premises supplied from
that portion,




(b)

is measured by the system devices installed on that portion,




(c)

is supplied from that portion to unmetered loads known to the
authority, and




(d)

is lost in that portion because of resistance or another cause known
to the authority;



"eligible premises"

means a building, structure or equipment of a customer of the
authority if the building, structure or equipment is connected to the
electric distribution system and has an electricity meter, but does
not include a building, structure or equipment where it is
impracticable for the authority to install a smart meter;



"in-home feedback device"

means a device that is capable of




(a)

displaying




(i)

a smart meter's measurements of electricity supplied to an eligible
premises, and




(ii)

the cost of the electricity measured by the smart meter, and




(b)

transmitting information in digital form to and receiving information
in digital form from a smart meter with which the authority has
established a secure telecommunications link;



"system device"

means a device, including a distribution system meter and a sensor,
that, when installed on the electric distribution system, is capable
of




(a)

measuring and recording measurements of electricity as frequently as
smart meters,




(b)

transmitting and receiving information in digital form,




(c)

measuring bi-directional flow of electricity, and




(d)

being configured by the authority at a location either remote from or
close to the device.

[am. B.C. Reg. 405/2012]





Prescribed requirements for smart meters




2


For the purposes of the definition of "smart meter" in section 17 (1)
of the Act, the prescribed requirements for a meter are that it is
capable of doing all of the following:




(a)

measuring electricity supplied to an eligible premises;




(b)

transmitting and receiving information in digital form;




(c)

allowing the authority remotely to disconnect and reconnect the supply
of electricity to an eligible premises, unless




(i)

the point of metering for the eligible premises




(A)

is greater than 240 volts,




(B)

is greater than 200 amperes, or




(C)

is three phase, or




(ii)

the eligible premises




(A)

has a bottom-connected meter,




(B)

has an output or input pulse meter, or




(C)

has a meter that measures maximum electricity demand in watts;




(d)

recording measurements of electricity, and recording the date and time
of the recording, at least as frequently as in 60-minute intervals;




(e)

being configured by the authority at a location either remote from or
close to the meter;




(f)

measuring and recording measurements of electricity generated at the
premises and supplied to the electric distribution system;




(g)

transmitting information to and receiving information from an in-home
feedback device, unless the point of metering for the eligible
premises meets any of the criteria set out in paragraph (c) (i) or the
eligible premises meets any of the criteria set out in paragraph (c)
(ii).






Installation of smart meters and related equipment




3

(1)


Subject to subsection (3), by the end of the 2012 calendar year, the
authority must install and put into operation




(a)

a smart meter for each eligible premises, and




(b)

all of the following related equipment:




(i)

communications infrastructure for transmitting information among smart
meters and the computer hardware and software systems described in
subparagraph (ii);




(ii)

secure computer hardware and software systems that enable the
authority to do all of the following:




(A)

monitor, control and configure smart meters and the communications
infrastructure referred to in subparagraph (i);




(B)

store, validate, analyze and use the information measured by and
received from smart meters;




(C)

provide, through the internet, to a person who receives electricity
from the authority secure access to information about the person's
electricity consumption and generation, if any, measured by a smart
meter;




(D)

establish a secure telecommunications link between in-home feedback
devices and smart meters that are compatible with each other;




(E)

bill customers in accordance with rates that encourage the shift of
the use of electricity from periods of higher demand to periods of
lower demand;




(F)

integrate the systems with the authority's other business systems.




(2)

The communications infrastructure referred to in subsection (1) (b)
(i) must include a telecommunications network that is capable of
delivering two-way, digital, and secure communication.




(3)

If it is impracticable because of distance, electromagnetic
interference, physical obstruction or other similar cause for the
authority to establish a telecommunications link between the smart
meter at an eligible premises and the computer hardware and software
system referred to in subsection (1) (b) (ii), the authority is not
required to install or put into operation the communications
infrastructure referred to in subsection (1) (b) (i) for the purpose
of establishing that telecommunications link.




(4)

The authority must integrate the operation of smart meters and related
equipment with the authority's other operations.






Smart grid




4

(1)


The program required under section 17 (4) of the Act must be
established by the end of the 2015 calendar year and include the
following components:




(a)

the establishment and operation of a connectivity model and the
installation and operation of




(i)

at least 9 000 but no more than 35 000 system devices, and




(ii)

computer hardware and software systems

to enable the authority to



(iii)

perform electricity balance analyses for the electric distribution
system, and




(iv)

estimate the amount of electricity supplied from a portion of the
electric distribution system to unmetered loads that are not known to
the authority and to estimate the location of those loads;




(b)

the acquisition of investigation devices and computer software to
enable the authority to identify the location of the unmetered loads
referred to in paragraph (a) (iv);




(c)

the establishment and operation of telecommunications networks that




(i)

have sufficient speed and bandwidth, and




(ii)

enable two-way, digital, and secure communication among system
devices, automation-enabled devices and the systems and equipment used
by the authority for monitoring and controlling its electric system

to facilitate



(iii)

the operation of the authority's electric system,




(iv)

the integration, on a large scale, of distributed generation into the
electric distribution system, and




(v)

the provision of electricity service that allows for the large-scale
use of electric vehicles by its customers.




(2)

The authority must integrate the operation of the smart grid with the
authority's other operations.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Clean Energy Act

, S.B.C. 2010, c. 22, section 37 (g)]



