







B.C. Reg. 218/2016

O.C. 650/2016


Deposited September 20, 2016

effective November 1, 2016





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Environmental Management Act


Solid Fuel Burning Domestic Appliance Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"appliance"
means a device designed for burning solid fuel to produce heat for
heating indoor spaces or cooking or for aesthetic enjoyment, but does
not include




(a)

barbecues,




(b)

chimineas,




(c)

outdoor fireplaces that are not used to heat indoor space,




(d)

outdoor ovens, and




(e)

solid fuel burning devices that




(i)

have an output capacity rating greater than 150 kW, or




(ii)

are certified by the manufacturer as having a maximum output capacity
of greater than 150 kW;


"boiler"
means an appliance in which fluid is heated and from which the heated
fluid or steam is circulated through pipes for purposes that include
heating spaces other than the space in which the boiler is located;


"camp stove"
means an appliance




(a)

that




(i)

weighs not more than 20 kg, and




(ii)

is designed to be portable for use when camping or picnicking or in
remote locations where an easily transportable means of cooking or
heating is needed, or




(b)

that is labelled as a camp stove in accordance with the US standard;



"Canadian standard"

means "CSA B415.1-10 Performance testing of solid-fuel-burning heating
appliances", published by the Canadian Standards Association, as
amended from time to time;


"certified"
, in relation to an appliance, means an appliance,




(a)

labelled in accordance with the Canadian standard, that




(i)

after testing by an organization accredited by the Standards Council
of Canada to test in accordance with the Canadian standard, is
certified by the organization as meeting the requirements of the
Canadian standard, or




(ii)

is an appliance of the same model as an appliance described in
subparagraph (i) and is, in all material respects, identical to that
appliance, or




(b)

labelled in accordance with the US standard, that




(i)

after testing by an organization accredited by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency to test in accordance with the US
standard, is certified by the organization as meeting the requirements
of the US standard, or




(ii)

is an appliance of the same model as an appliance described in
subparagraph (i) and is, in all material respects, identical to that
appliance;


"cook stove"
means an appliance




(a)

that




(i)

is designed primarily for cooking food, rather than heating space,




(ii)

is equipped with




(A)

an enclosed oven that has a volume greater than 0.028 m
3
, and




(B)

a device for measuring the temperature of the oven, and




(iii)

has a flame path capable of being routed around the oven, or




(b)

that is labelled as a cook stove in accordance with the US standard;


"cordwood"
means conventional firewood;



"factory-built fireplace"

means an appliance, intended primarily for aesthetic enjoyment and
consisting entirely of factory-built components assembled at the
factory in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications,




(a)

that does not have either an automatic or manual air or combustion
control except




(i)

a flue damper, or




(ii)

an outside air damper that can only be adjusted to a fully closed or
fully open position,




(b)

that bears a permanent label




(i)

of an organization accredited by the Standards Council of Canada,
which label indicates the device is certified by the organization as
meeting the requirements of the Underwriters Laboratories of Canada
Inc. standard CAN/ULC—S610-M87, Standard for Factory-Built Fireplaces,
or




(ii)

of an organization accredited by a member of the International
Accreditation Forum, which label indicates that the device is
certified by the organization as meeting the requirements of the
Underwriters Laboratories Inc. standard UL 127 Standard for
Factory-Built Fireplaces, and




(c)

the certification of which either




(i)

permits use of the device only if the doors are fully open, or




(ii)

permits the use of the device with the doors closed only if




(A)

the doors are tempered glass panels, or




(B)

the device has an opening that is at least 0.323 m
3
(500 square inches);


"furnace"
means an appliance, designed to be located outside ordinary living
areas, in which air is heated and from which the heated air is
distributed through ducts for heating spaces other than the space in
which the furnace is located;



"masonry heater"

means a free-standing appliance that




(a)

is constructed primarily of masonry,




(b)

has a mass of at least 800 kg, excluding the chimney and foundation,
and




(c)

is designed




(i)

to absorb the heat from a rapidly burned charge of solid fuel by
routing hot exhaust gases through internal heat exchange channels that
include at least one 180° change in flow direction, and




(ii)

to heat spaces by radiating the absorbed heat;



"outdoor boiler"

means a boiler that is




(a)

designed to be installed outdoors or in a structure not ordinarily
used as living space, and




(b)

specified by the manufacturer as suitable for outdoor installation or
installation in structures not ordinarily used as living space;


"owner"
means,




(a)

in relation to a parcel registered in a land title office, the
registered owner in fee simple, and




(b)

in relation to any parcel, a person occupying the parcel;


"parcel"
,




(a)

in relation to land registered in a land title office, has the same
meaning as in the

Land Title Act

, and




(b)

in relation to any other land, means an area of land the boundaries of
which are certain and that is held by an owner;



"pellet stove"

means a stove that burns pelletized fuel to heat the space in which it
is located;



"pelletized fuel"

means processed fuel consisting of uniform, discrete pellets of
compressed, dried biomass material;



"phase 2 qualified boiler"

means a boiler that




(a)

was manufactured by a person who, at the time of manufacture, was a
party to an "EPA Hydronic Heater Program — Phase 2 Partnership
Agreement" with the United States Environmental Protection Agency,




(b)

has an average particulate matter emission rate of not more than 0.32
lb. per million BTU (0.1376 g/MJ), and a maximum particulate matter
emission rate of not more than 18 g/hr, determined in accordance with
"Test Method 28 OWHH for Measurement of Particulate Emissions and
Heating Efficiency of Wood-Fired Hydronic Heating Appliances",
published by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, and




(c)

is labelled in accordance with Attachment 3 of the agreement referred
to in paragraph (a);


"seasoned"
, in relation to wood or wood products, means the wood or wood
products contain not more than 20% moisture by weight;



"site-built masonry fireplace"

means an appliance that is




(a)

a wood burning fireplace of primarily masonry construction, and




(b)

built or assembled at the site on which it is located;


"solid fuel"
means




(a)

untreated, seasoned wood or wood products, including, without
limitation, cordwood, woodchips, sawdust and wood left over from
cutting lumber to length,




(b)

manufactured firelogs,




(c)

pelletized fuel, and




(d)

corn kernels and seed hulls;


"untreated"
, in relation to wood or wood products, means the wood or wood
products have not been treated with a preservative and have not been
painted, varnished or coated with another substance;



"US standard"

means the applicable of the following standards published by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency, as amended from time to
time:




(a)

in relation to boilers and furnaces, the "Code of Federal Regulations,
Title 40, Part 60, Subpart QQQQ — Standards of Performance for New
Residential Hydronic Heaters and Forced-Air Furnaces";




(b)

in relation to any other appliance, the "Code of Federal Regulations,
Title 40, Part 60, Subpart AAA — Standards of Performance for New
Residential Wood Heaters".






Use of solid fuel in appliances




2

(1)


A person must not burn anything other than solid fuel in an appliance.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), paper or cardboard may be used in an appliance
but only for the purpose of starting a fire.






Exceptions from section 2




3


Section 2 (1) does not apply to a boiler that




(a)

is operated under and in accordance with emission limits established
by a permit, or




(b)

is used for purposes that include carrying out an agricultural
operation, as defined in section 1 of the Code of Practice for
Agricultural Environmental Management.

[am. B.C. Reg. 7/2019, Sch. 5.]





Vendor requirements — appliances




4

(1)


In this section:


"consumer"
means a person who purchases an appliance other than for the purpose
of resale;


"vendor"
includes a manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer.




(2)

Subsections (3) and (4) do not apply in relation to boilers or
furnaces until March 1, 2017.




(3)

A vendor who carries on business in British Columbia as a
manufacturer, wholesaler or retailer of appliances, and any person who
sells new appliances to consumers, must not sell or offer to sell, for
use or resale, a new appliance unless




(a)

the vendor is in possession of the records described in subsection (4)
in relation to the appliance, and




(b)

those records demonstrate that the appliance is certified.




(4)

A vendor of a new appliance must obtain from the wholesaler or
manufacturer of the appliance, or from the accredited organization
that carried out the testing of the appliance or a sample of the
appliance, a record of the test results in a form certified on behalf
of the accredited organization by a person who is able to verify the
results.




(5)

A vendor who sells a new outdoor boiler to a consumer must inform the
consumer of the setback requirements under section 7.




(6)

A vendor who sells a new outdoor boiler to a consumer must provide to
the consumer, and retain for the vendor's records, a document, or a
copy of a document, that includes




(a)

a signed declaration of the consumer that the consumer has been
informed of the requirements under section 7,




(b)

a signed declaration of the vendor as to whether the boiler is a
certified boiler, and




(c)

the following information:




(i)

the name and address of the vendor;




(ii)

the consumer's name and address;




(iii)

the date of sale;




(iv)

the manufacturer and model name or number of the appliance.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 3.]





Exceptions from section 4




5


Section 4 does not apply to a vendor described in section 4 (3), (4),
(5) or (6) if




(a)

the appliance is a camp stove, cook stove, factory-built fireplace,
masonry heater or a site-built masonry fireplace,




(b)

the appliance is a boiler that




(i)

the vendor is satisfied is to be used for heating commercial,
institutional or multi-residence buildings,




(ii)

is fueled by pelletized fuel or wood chips delivered automatically to
the firebox, and




(iii)

has automatic systems to remove ash, or




(c)

the vendor of the appliance is




(i)

the manufacturer of the appliance and manufactures that appliance only
for export from British Columbia, or




(ii)

satisfied that the purchaser of the appliance intends to install or
export the appliance outside British Columbia.






Requirements — pelletized fuel specifications




6

(1)


A person who carries on business in British Columbia as a
manufacturer, wholesaler or retailer of pelletized fuel must not sell
or offer to sell, for use or resale, pelletized fuel intended for use
in a pellet stove located in a single family dwelling or a residential
unit of a multi-residence building unless the fuel conforms to the
specifications set out in the Schedule.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a person described in that section
who has reasonable grounds to believe that the purchaser of the fuel
does so only for use or resale outside of British Columbia.






Boilers — setback and operational requirements




7

(1)


In this section, "installed" means installed outdoors or in a
structure not ordinarily used as living space.




(2)

An owner of a parcel must ensure that a boiler that is installed on
the parcel after November 1, 2016 but before May 1, 2017 is installed
as follows:




(a)

if the boiler is a certified boiler or a phase 2 qualified boiler, not
less than 40 m from each of the parcel's boundaries;




(b)

in any other case, not less than 80 m from each of the parcel's
boundaries.




(3)

An owner of a parcel must ensure that a boiler that is installed on
the parcel on or after May 1, 2017 is




(a)

a certified boiler, and




(b)

installed not less than 40 m from each of the parcel's boundaries.




(4)

Despite subsections (2) (a) and (3), if the certified boiler is
designed to burn only pelletized fuel, the boiler must be installed
not less than 10 m from each of the parcel's boundaries.




(5)

A person must not operate a boiler installed contrary to subsection
(2) (a) or (b), (3) or (4).




(6)

On and after November 1, 2026, a person must not operate an installed
boiler unless the boiler is a certified boiler or a phase 2 qualified
boiler.






Exceptions from section 7




8

(1)


In this section:



"assisted living residence"

has the same meaning as in the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

;



"community care facility"

has the same meaning as in the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

;


"facility"
has the same meaning as in the

Continuing Care Act

;



"First Nation land"

has the same meaning as in the


First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act


(Canada);


"hospital"
means




(a)

a hospital as defined in section 1 of the

Hospital Act

, or




(b)

a private hospital as defined in section 4.1 of the

Hospital Act

;



"participating First Nation"

has the same meaning as in the


First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act


(Canada);


"school"
means a parcel used for any of the following:




(a)

a school as defined in the

School Act

;




(b)

a francophone school as defined in the

School Act

;




(c)

a Provincial school as defined in the

School Act

;




(d)

an independent school as defined in the

Independent School Act

;




(e)

a school operated on First Nation land by the government of Canada or
by a participating First Nation or a Community Education Authority
established by one or more participating First Nations under the


First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act


(Canada);




(f)

a school operated by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, or a treaty first nation,
under its own laws.




(2)

Section 7 does not apply in relation to a boiler that




(a)

is operated under and in accordance with emission standards
established by a permit, or




(b)

is used for purposes that include carrying out an agricultural
operation, as defined in section 1 of the Code of Practice for
Agricultural Environmental Management.




(3)

Section 7 (6) does not apply in relation to a boiler on a parcel if
the boiler is located




(a)

not less than 80 m from each of the parcel's boundaries, and




(b)

not less than 500 m from the nearest property line of any hospital,
school, community care facility, assisted living residence or
facility.

[am. B.C. Reg. 7/2019, Sch. 5.]





Record keeping and inspection




9

(1)


A vendor referred to in section 4 must retain at the vendor's place of
business the records, or a copy of the records, required under section
4 (4) and (6),




(a)

in the case of records referred to in section 4 (4), for 5 years after
the date the records are obtained, and




(b)

in the case of records referred to in section 4 (6), for 5 years after
the date the records are created.




(2)

A vendor required under subsection (1) to retain records, if requested
to do so by an officer, must




(a)

produce the records for inspection during normal business hours, and




(b)

provide a written report in the form and time directed by the officer
respecting the information contained in the records.






Offences and penalties




10

(1)


A person who contravenes section 4 (3) commits an offence and, on
conviction, is liable to a fine not exceeding $200 000.




(2)

A person who contravenes section 4 (4), (5) or (6), 6 (1), 7 (2), (3),
(4), (5) or (6) or 9 (2) (a) or (b) commits an offence and, on
conviction, is liable to a fine not exceeding $100 000.






Repealed




11


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 218/2016, s. 11 (3).]




Schedule

[section 6]




Column 1

Characteristic


Column 2

Specification



bulk density

not less than 640 kg/m
3



dimensions

6 to 8 mm in diameter



fines

not more than 0.5% by weight is able to pass a 3 mm screen



inorganic ash
less than 1%


length
no longer than 4 cm


sodium
no more than 300 ppm




[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Environmental Management Act

, S.B.C. 2003, c. 53, ss. 75 and 138.]



