
Capital Requirements Regulation

Financial Institutions Act




Item



Column 1

Type of Asset




Column 2

Deduction






1

Goodwill and other intangible assets that on January 1, 1997
were included in the carrying value of an investment in another
entity, if that investment is valued under the equity method of
accounting.


To be deducted on a straight line basis over the lesser of the
following:

(a) the current amortization period applied to the goodwill and
other tangible assets;

(b) 10 years.



2

Goodwill and other intangible assets that are acquired after
January 1, 1997 and included in the carrying value of an
investment in another entity, if that investment is valued under
the equity method of accounting.


To be deducted on a straight line basis over a maximum of 5
years.



3

Goodwill and other intangible assets that are not included in
the carrying value of an investment in another entity.


To be deducted immediately, to the full extent.



4

An asset acquired as a result of a back-to-back placement.


To be deducted to the full extent.



5

An investment in a corporation, in which the financial
institution has a substantial investment, that

(a) is not a cooperative credit society or an association, each
as defined in the
Cooperative Credit Associations Act
(Canada), or a central credit union, and

(b) carries on trust business, deposit business or both or the
business of banking.


To be deducted to the extent of an amount that is at least equal
to the amount that constitutes an adequate capital base for the
corporation.



6

An investment in a corporation, in which the financial
institution has a substantial investment, that

(a) carries on insurance business, other than as an insurance
agency, or the business of a

(i) broker,

(ii) underwriter, or

(iii) dealer in securities, or

(b) is a venture capital corporation.


To be deducted to the full extent.



7

An investment in a corporation, in which the financial
institution has a substantial investment, that

(a) carries on a mutual fund investment or a type of business or
activity listed in section 2 of the Prescribed Types of Business
Regulation, or

(b) is a corporation in respect of which the superintendent has
given written consent under section 141 (2) (c) of the Act and
that carries on a business reasonably ancillary to the business
of the financial institution.


To be deducted only to the extent that the aggregate of the
financial institution's investment in all such corporations
exceeds 2% of the financial institution's total assets.


