
Crown Land Fees Regulation

Land Act; Ministry of Lands, Parks and Housing Act




Schedule




Item


Column 1



Column 2

Fee









1

For an application for a declaration of intention under
section 58

of the

Land Act

for inclusion of a waterbody or road in a Crown

grant subdivision

$500


2

For application for a replacement disposition or the conversion
of an existing disposition to another form of disposition


50% of the application fee

listed in the schedule to

section 1 for the purpose

listed or $200 whichever

is more



3

(a) For an application for expansion of a Finfish aquaculture
disposition


50% of the application fee listed in the Schedule to section 1
for Finfish aquaculture purposes



3

(b) For an application for expansion of a Shellfish aquaculture
disposition


50% of the application fee listed in the Schedule to section 1
for Shellfish aquaculture purposes



4

For an application to amend an aquaculture disposition other
than

a minor amendment referred to in item 5

$500


5

For an application to process a minor amendment to a disposition

requested by the holder of the disposition (including changes

related to insurance, security and bonds, minor extensions to
the term of the disposition to meet survey requirements, and
other similar matters, but not including changes that
substantially alter the terms and conditions of a disposition
agreement)

$100


6

For an application to process and approve any document

evidencing the assignment of an interest passing under a

disposition, including assignments by way of mortgage, and

including consent to sub-tenure. Half-fee for each assignment in

batch requests greater than 5

$250


7

For the preparation of a certified true copy of any legal
document

that has been issued pursuant to a disposition

$50


8

For the extracting, reviewing, researching or compilation of

information from Land and Water BC Inc. records


$50 for each hour

with $25 minimum fee



9

For an application to reinstate a cancelled disposition

$300


10

For photocopying information from Land and Water BC Inc. records


$0.25 for each page

(single-sided), for requests

of more than 20 pages (i.e.

20 pages or fewer is free;

minimum charge is $5.25

for 21 pages)



11

For copying or printing of maps

$10 each copy


12

For the issuance of survey instructions and the final plan
examinations for surveys of Crown land, including easements or
statutory rights of way less than 25 km in length

$300


13

For the issuance of survey instructions and the final
examination of survey plans of easements or statutory rights of
way which are 25 km long or longer

$50 per hour


14

For applications related to Alpine Skiing – Type 2 (major)
operation, as follows:





(a) an application to issue a disposition as provided by a
master development agreement

$250




(b) an application for a replacement of a master development
agreement and its associated tenures

$250




(c) an application to process and approve an assignment,
mortgage or other disposition of an interest under a master
development agreement and its associated tenures

$250






