
Greenhouse Gas Emission Reporting Regulation

Greenhouse Gas Industrial Reporting and Control Act




Column 1


Column 2


Column 3


Column 4


Column 5




Item


Activity


Source Type


Greenhouse Gas Type



Relevant

Requirements






1

General stationary combustion excluding general stationary
combustion referred to in column 2 of item 1 of
Table 2


(a) General stationary combustion of fuel or waste with production
of useful energy


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Carbon dioxide from biomass listed in Schedule C

Carbon dioxide from biomass not listed in Schedule C

Methane

Nitrous Oxide


WCI.020

1





(b) General stationary combustion of waste without production of
useful energy


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Carbon dioxide from biomass listed in Schedule C

Carbon dioxide from biomass not listed in Schedule C

Methane

Nitrous oxide



2

Fuel combustion by mobile equipment at a facility that carries out
activities referred to in this column of items 1 and 3 to 27 in
this Table


Fuel combustion by mobile equipment that is part of the facility


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Carbon dioxide from biomass listed in Schedule C

Carbon dioxide from biomass not listed in Schedule C

Methane

Nitrous oxide

WCI.280


3

Aluminum or alumina production


(a) Anode consumption in electrolysis cells, anode and cathode
baking or green coke calcination


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

WCI.070


(b) Anode effects
Perfluorocarbons



(c) Cover gas from electrolysis cells

Sulphur hexafluoride


4
Ammonia production

Steam reformation or gasification of a hydrocarbon during ammonia
production


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

WCI.080


5
Cement production

Calcination of limestone, shale, sand, slag or other raw materials
used to produce clinker, as well as the oxidization of organic
carbon in the raw material


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

WCI.090


6

Underground coal mining


Coal when broken or exposed to the atmosphere during mining


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Methane

WCI.250


7

Coal storage at facilities that combust coal

Stored coal piles
Methane
WCI.100


8

Copper or nickel smelting or refining


One or more of the following processes:


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

WCI.260



(a) removal of impurities using carbonate flux reagents;




(b) use of reducing agents;




(c) use of material (e.g., coke) for slag cleaning and the
consumption of graphite or carbon electrodes;




(d) the solvent extraction and electrowinning process, also known
as SX-EW.



9

Electricity generation


(a) Fuel combustion for electricity generation


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Carbon dioxide from biomass listed in Schedule C

Carbon dioxide from biomass not listed in Schedule C

Methane

Nitrous oxide


WCI.040 for source types set out in paragraphs (a) to (d)


WCI.230 for source types set out in paragraph (e)




(b) Acid gas scrubbers and acid gas reagents


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass



(c) Cooling units
Hydrofluorocarbons



(d) Geothermal geyser steam or fluids


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass




(e) Installation, maintenance, operation and decommission-ing of
electrical equipment

Sulphur hexafluoride


10

Electronics manufacturing


Electronics manufacturing, including the cleaning of chemical
vapour deposition chambers and plasma/dry etching processes


Hydrofluorocarbons

Sulphur hexafluoride

Perfluorocarbons

WCI.110


11

Ferroalloy production


Removal of impurities using carbonate flux reagents, the use of
reducing agents, the use of material (e.g. coke) for slag
cleaning, and the consumption of graphite or carbon electrodes
during ferroalloy production


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

WCI.270


12
Glass manufacturing

Calcination of carbonate materials


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

WCI.140


13
Hydrogen production

Steam reformation of hydrocarbons, partial oxidation of
hydrocarbons or other transformation of hydrocarbon feedstock


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

WCI.130


14

Industrial wastewater processing


(a) Industrial wastewater process using anaerobic digestion


Methane

Nitrous oxide


WCI.200,

section 203 (g)




(b) Oil-water separators

Methane

WCI.200,

section 203 (h)



15
Lead production

Use of reducing agents during lead production


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

WCI.160


16
Lime manufacturing

Calcination of carbonate materials in lime manufacturing


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

WCI.170


17

Magnesium production


(a) Use of reducing agents in magnesium production


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

WCI.290



(b) Cover gases or carrier gases in magnesium production


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Sulphur hexafluoride

Perfluorocarbons

Hydrofluorocarbons



18

Nitric acid manufacturing


Catalytic oxidation, condensation and absorption processes during
nitric acid manufacturing

Nitrous oxide
WCI.310


19

Petrochemical production


(a) Flares and oxidizers


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Methane

Nitrous oxide

WCI.300


(b) Process vents

Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Methane

Nitrous oxide



(c) Equipment leaks
Methane



(d) Ethylene production


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Methane

Nitrous oxide



(e) Process units

Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Methane

Nitrous oxide



20

Petroleum refining


(a) Catalyst regeneration


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Methane

Nitrous oxide

WCI.200


(b) Process vents

Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Methane

Nitrous oxide




(c) Asphalt production


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Methane



(d) Sulphur recovery

Carbon dioxide from non-biomass




(e) Flares, the flare pilot, the combustion of purge gas and the
destruction of low Btu gases


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Methane

Nitrous oxide




(f) Above-ground storage tanks at refineries

Methane



(g) Oil-water separators at refineries

Methane



(h) Equipment leaks at refineries

Methane



(i) Wastewater processing using anaerobic digestion at refineries


Methane

Nitrous oxide




(j) Uncontrolled blowdown systems used at refineries


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Methane

Nitrous oxide




(k) Loading operations at refineries and terminals

Methane



(l) Delayed coking units at refineries

Methane



(m) Coke calcining at refineries


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Methane

Nitrous oxide



21

Phosphoric acid production


Reaction of calcium carbonate with sulphuric acid


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

WCI.340


22

Pulp and paper production


Pulping and chemical recovery


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Carbon dioxide from biomass listed in Schedule C

Methane

Nitrous Oxide

WCI.210


23

Refinery fuel gas combustion


Combustion of refinery fuel gas, still gas, flexigas or associated
gas


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

Methane

Nitrous oxide

WCI.030


24
Zinc production

Use of reducing agents during zinc production


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

WCI.240


25
Open pit coal mining

Coal when broken or exposed to the atmosphere during mining

Methane

In accordance with section 2 of Schedule A



26

Storage of petroleum products, excluding storage that is part of
an activity listed in column 2 of Table 2


Above-ground storage tanks

Methane

WCI.200

Section 203 (f)



27
Carbonate use

Carbonates used but not consumed in other activities set out in
column 2


Carbon dioxide from non-biomass

WCI.180

