
Greenhouse Gas Emission Reporting Regulation

Greenhouse Gas Industrial Reporting and Control Act




where



GHG
generation

=

the emissions, attributable to the generation of electricity
supplied to a British Columbia electrical transmission grid from
facilities located in British Columbia, that are quantified and
reported under this regulation in tonnes of carbon dioxide
equivalent;




GHG
SI

=

the emissions, attributable to the generation of specified
imports, that are quantified and reported under this regulation
in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent;




GHG
SE

=

the emissions, attributable to the generation of specified
exports, that are quantified and reported under this regulation
in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent;




GHG
UT

=

(a) if the amount determined in accordance with paragraph (c) is
0 or greater, then the amount determined in accordance with
paragraph (c), or

(b) if the amount determined in accordance with paragraph (c) is
less than 0, then 0;




MWh
generation

=

the amount of electricity, in megawatt-hours, supplied to the
relevant British Columbia electrical transmission grid from
facilities located in British Columbia and Canadian entitlement
power;




MWh
SI

=

the amount of specified imports imported into British Columbia
and supplied to the relevant British Columbia electrical
transmission grid, in megawatt-hours;




MWh
SE

=

the amount of specified exports exported from British Columbia,
in megawatt-hours;




MWh
UI

=

the amount of unspecified imports imported into British Columbia
and supplied to the relevant British Columbia electrical
transmission grid, in megawatt-hours;




MWh
UE

=

the amount of unspecified exports exported from British
Columbia, in megawatt-hours.


