
Motor Vehicle Act Regulations

Motor Vehicle Act






30 x 30 cm


NO STOPPING ANY TIME
(Regulatory)

Vehicles must not be stopped at any time in a zone marked by signs
of this type. Arrows indicate directions in which the zone
applies.

Colour:
Black stop symbol and arrows, red ring and diagonal bar on white
background. Red and white reflectorized.






30 x 45 cm


NO STOPPING
(Specified periods) (Regulatory)

Vehicles must not be stopped in a zone marked by signs of this
type on the days and during the periods specified on the signs.
Arrows indicate directions in which the zone applies.

Colour:
Black stop symbol, arrows, numerals and letters, red ring and
diagonal stroke on white background. Red and white reflectorized.






30 x 30 cm


NO PARKING ANY TIME
(Regulatory)

Vehicles must not be parked at any time in a zone marked by signs
of this type. Arrows indicate directions in which the zone
applies.

Colour:
Black letter and arrows, red ring and diagonal stroke on white
background. Red and white reflectorized.






30 x 45 cm


NO PARKING
(Specified periods) (Regulatory)

Vehicles must not be parked in a zone marked by signs of this type
on the days and during the periods specified on the signs. Arrows
indicate directions in which the zone applies.

Colour:
Black arrows, letters and numerals; red ring and diagonal stroke
on white background. Red and white reflectorized.






30 x 45 cm


PARKING PERMITTED
(Specified periods) (Regulatory)

Vehicles may be parked in a zone marked by signs of this type for
a period not exceeding the number of minutes or hours specified on
the signs. Such restriction is only in effect on the days and
during the periods also specified. Arrows indicate the direction
in which the zone applies.

Colour:
Black arrows, letters and numerals and green ring on white
background. Green and white reflectorized.






30 x 60 cm


DISABLED PARKING
(Regulatory)

Only vehicles transporting or driven by a person with disabilities
may park in parking spaces which display this sign.

Colour:
White background throughout, red top circle and centre slash,
black centre "P", green bottom circle, black centre symbol, black
arrows and black border. White, red and green reflectorized.


