
Permanent Impairment Regulation

Insurance (Vehicle) Act



Item

Column 1

Class of impairment


Column 2

Audibility


Column 3

Intelligibility


Column 4

Functional efficiency


Column 5

Percentage



1
ClassÂ 1

Can produce speech of intensity sufficient for most of the needs
of everyday speech communication although this sometimes may
require effort and may be beyond the insured's capacity


Can perform most of the articulatory acts necessary for everyday
speech communication although listeners occasionally ask the
insured to repeat and the insured may find it difficult or
impossible to produce a few phonetic units


Can meet most of the demands of articulation and phonation for
everyday speech communication with adequate speed and ease,
although occasionally the insured may hesitate or speak slowly

5%


2
Class 2

Can produce speech of intensity sufficient for most of the needs
of everyday speech communication, the insured is usually heard
under average conditions; however, may have difficulty in
vehicles, trains, buses, train stations or ferry terminals,
restaurants or similar places


Can perform many of the necessary articulatory acts necessary
for everyday speech communication, the insured can speak name,
address and similar information and be understood by a stranger
but may have numerous inaccuracies, the insured sometimes
appears to have difficulty articulating


(a) can meet many of the demands of articulation and phonation
for everyday communication with adequate speed and ease, but
sometimes gives impression of difficulty, or

(b) speech may sometimes be discontinuous, interrupted hesitant
or slow

10%


3
Class 3

(a) can produce speech of intensity sufficient for some of the
needs of everyday speech communication such as close
conversation; however, the insured has considerable difficulty
in places described in column 2 of item 2, or

(b) the voice tires rapidly and tends to become inaudible after
a few seconds


Can perform some of the necessary articulatory acts for everyday
speech communication, the insured can usually converse with
family and friends; however, strangers may find it difficult to
understand the insured, who often may be asked to repeat


(a) can meet some of the demands of articulation and phonation
for everyday speech communication with adequate speed and ease,
but often can sustain consecutive speech only for brief periods,
or

(b) may give the impression of being rapidly fatigued

15%


4
Class 4

(a) can produce speech of intensity sufficient for a few of the
needs of everyday speech communication,

(b) the insured can barely be heard by a close listener or over
the telephone, or

(c) the insured may be able to whisper audibly but does not have
a louder voice


(a) can perform a few of the necessary articulatory acts for
everyday speech communication,

(b) the insured can produce some phonetic units, or

(c) the insured may have approximations for a few words such as
names of own family members, however the insured is
unintelligible out of context


(a) can meet a few of the demands of articulation and phonation
for everyday speech communication with adequate speed and ease,
such as single words or short phrases but insured cannot
maintain uninterrupted speech flow, or

(b) speech is laboured, rate of speech is impractically slow

20%


5
Class 5

Speech intensity insufficient for everyday speech communication


Articulatory acts insufficient for everyday speech communication


Articulation and phonation insufficient for everyday speech
communication with adequate speed and ease

25%

