
Provincial Sales Tax Regulation

Provincial Sales Tax Act






where


purchase price
=

the purchase price of the tangible personal property under
section 9 (a) to (d.2) of the Act;



rate
=

the rate of depreciation determined as follows:





(a)

in relation to aircraft, the total of








(i) 25% for each year that the aircraft was used by the person
liable to pay tax under the Act, and

(ii) 2.0833% for each 30-day period in a partial year that the
aircraft was used by the person liable to pay tax under the Act;





(b)

in relation to railway rolling stock or equipment mounted on
railway rolling stock, the total of








(i) 10% for each year that the railway rolling stock or
equipment was used by the person liable to pay tax under the
Act, and

(ii) 0.8333% for each 30-day period in a partial year that the
railway rolling stock or equipment was used by the person liable
to pay tax under the Act;





(c)

in relation to a vehicle or equipment mounted on a vehicle, the
total of








(i) 30% for each year that the vehicle or equipment was used by
the person liable to pay tax under the Act, and

(ii) 2.5% for each 30-day period in a partial year that the
vehicle or equipment was used by the person liable to pay tax
under the Act;





(d)

in relation to a vessel or equipment mounted on a vessel, the
total of








(i) 15% for each year that the vessel or equipment was used by
the person liable to pay tax under the Act, and

(ii) 1.25% for each 30-day period in a partial year that the
vessel or equipment was used by the person liable to pay tax
under the Act;





(e)

in relation to equipment, furnishings or affixed machinery not
described in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d), the total of








(i) 20% for each year that the equipment, furnishings or affixed
machinery was used by the person liable to pay tax under the
Act, and

(ii) 1.667% for each 30-day period in a partial year that the
equipment, furnishings or affixed machinery was used by the
person liable to pay tax under the Act.


