





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 26/58

O.C. 1004/58







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after March 5, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Motor Vehicle Act


Motor Vehicle Act Regulations


[Last amended November 27, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 244/2023]



Division 44 — Mobility Aid Accessible Taxi Standards





Interpretation




44.1


In this Division:



"accessible taxi"

means a taxi having a gross vehicle weight rating of not more than 4
500 kg, which is designed and manufactured or converted for the
purpose of transporting persons who use mobility aids;



"CSA standard Z605"

means the Canadian Standards Association standard Z605, Mobility Aid
Securement and Occupant Restraint (MASOR) Systems for Motor Vehicles,
as amended from time to time by the Canadian Standards Association;


"entry ramp"
means a ramp in a service entrance doorway of a vehicle;



"mobility aid"

means a device, including a manual wheelchair, electric wheelchair and
scooter, that is used to facilitate the transport, in a normally
seated orientation, of a person with a physical disability.


[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2000, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 166/2019, s. 10.]






Application




44.2

(1)


A person must not, after June 30, 2000, drive or operate on a highway
an accessible taxi that does not meet the requirements of this
Division.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 26/58, s. 44.2 (3).]




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 166/2019, s. 11 (b).]


[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2000, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 166/2019, s. 11.]




Part 1 — Accessible Taxis Manufactured or Converted Before September 16,
2019





Interpretation




44.21


In this Part,
"CSA standard D409-92"
means the Canadian Standards Association standard D409-92, Motor
Vehicles for the Transportation of Persons with Physical Disabilities,
as adopted and modified by section 44.3.

[en. B.C. Reg. 166/2019, s. 13.]





Application




44.22


This Part applies to accessible taxis that are manufactured or
converted before September 16, 2019.

[en. B.C. Reg. 166/2019, s. 13.]





CSA standard D409-92




44.3

(1)


The Canadian Standards Association standard D409-92, Motor Vehicles
for the Transportation of Persons with Physical Disabilities, except
clauses 6.8.1.5 (b), 6.8.1.9 (b), 6.11, 6.12.1 and 7.1.1, is adopted
as amended from time to time by the Canadian Standards Association.




(2)

If there is a conflict between CSA standard D409-92 and this Part,
this Part prevails.




(3)

A person must not drive or operate on a highway an accessible taxi
unless the vehicle and its equipment comply with CSA standard D409-92.


[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2000, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 166/2019, s. 14.]






Door and emergency exit requirements




44.4

(1)


Every accessible taxi must




(a)

have an entrance door opening that is not less than 0.77 metres wide
by 1.32 metres high, and




(b)

provide a means of egress through an opening that is not less than
0.70 metres wide by 1.0 metres high, located either at the end of the
vehicle or on the side opposite the entrance door.




(2)

A manual device is required for unlatching each door from the inside
of an accessible taxi and the manual device must be engineered to
offer protection against accidental release.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2000, s. 3.]





Passenger seat quick-release




44.5


If an accessible taxi is equipped with a passenger seat that
interferes with the emergency exit, the seat must be equipped with
quick-release seat anchorages to facilitate rapid seat removal and
unimpeded emergency exit from the vehicle without the need to use any
tools.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2000, s. 3.]





Inside height




44.6

(1)


Every accessible taxi must have a minimum interior vertical clearance,
measured from the floor to the interior surface of the roof, of




(a)

1.44 metres if the mobility aid is secured in the front passenger
area, and




(b)

1.46 metres for all other mobility aid positions.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the measurements must be taken at
the point where the shoulder of a mobility aid occupant is positioned
when the mobility aid is securely fastened.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2000, s. 3.]





Clearance requirements




44.7

(1)


Every accessible taxi must, when operated on a highway, provide a
floor space inside the vehicle for each mobility aid of not less than




(a)

0.68 metres by 1.30 metres in side entry vehicles, and




(b)

0.68 metres by 1.14 metres in rear entry vehicles,


and the longer dimension must be parallel to the vehicle's
longitudinal centre line.




(2)

An accessible taxi must not have any fixed vehicle structure at a
secured mobility aid position, within the zones referred to in clause
7.1.2 of CSA standard D409-92, except components described in CSA
standard Z605.




(3)

Subsection (2) does not apply to the upper front quadrant area, as
described in Figure 2 of CSA standard D409-92, for mobility aid
positions located beside the driver in the front of the accessible
taxi.


[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2000, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 166/2019, s. 15.]






Mobility aid securement and occupant restraint




44.8

(1)


Every accessible taxi must be equipped with mobility aid securement
devices that conform with CSA standard Z605 at the time of manufacture
or conversion and before the vehicle is first put into commercial
service.




(2)

An operator of an accessible taxi must, before the vehicle is put in
motion, secure every occupant of a mobility aid in a forward or
rearward facing orientation by a securement system and procedure that
meets the requirements of CSA standard Z605.


[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2000, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 166/2019, s. 15.]






Entry ramp requirement and standards




44.9

(1)


Every accessible taxi must be equipped with all of the following:




(a)

an entry ramp with the least slope practicable which must not exceed




(i)

1:4, if the height difference, between the vehicle floor from which
the ramp is deployed and the ground where the bottom of the ramp is
rested, is 0.23 metres or less,




(ii)

1:6, if the height difference, between the vehicle floor from which
the ramp is deployed and the ground where the bottom of the ramp is
rested, is greater than 0.23 metres but less than or equal to 0.30
metres,




(iii)

1:8, if the height difference, between the vehicle floor from which
the ramp is deployed and the ground where the bottom of the ramp is
rested, is greater than 0.30 metres but less than or equal to 0.38
metres, or




(iv)

1:10, if the height difference, between the vehicle floor from which
the ramp is deployed and the ground where the bottom of the ramp is
rested, is greater than 0.38 metres;




(b)

an entry ramp threshold or transition from roadway, sidewalk, flat
ground or vehicle floor to the top surface of the ramp, that consists
of a beveled ramp edge with a slope no less than 1:2, if the height
difference is more than 6 mm from the ramp surface to the ground;




(c)

an entry ramp surface that is in a single plane, slip resistant, does
not have protrusions from the surface greater than 6 mm in height and
that is capable of accommodating both four-wheel and three-wheel
mobility aids.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to an accessible taxi that is equipped
with a powered mobility aid lift which meets the requirements of CSA
standard D409-92.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2000, s. 3.]



Part 2 — Accessible Taxis Manufactured or Converted on or After
September 16, 2019





Interpretation




44.91


In this Part,
"CSA standard D409"
means the Canadian Standards Association standard D409, Motor Vehicles
for the Transportation of Persons with Physical Disabilities, as
amended from time to time.

[en. B.C. Reg. 166/2019, s. 16.]





Application




44.92


This Part applies to accessible taxis that are manufactured or
converted on or after September 16, 2019.

[en. B.C. Reg. 166/2019, s. 16.]





CSA standard D409




44.93


A person must not drive or operate on a highway an accessible taxi
unless the vehicle and its equipment comply with the CSA standard D409
in effect at the time of manufacture or conversion.

[en. B.C. Reg. 166/2019, s. 16.]





Mobility aid securement and occupant restraint




44.94

(1)


Every accessible taxi must be equipped with mobility aid securement
devices that conform with the CSA standard Z605 in effect at the time
of manufacture or conversion.




(2)

An operator of an accessible taxi must, before the vehicle is put in
motion, secure every occupant of a mobility aid in a forward or
rearward facing orientation by a securement system and procedure that
meets the requirements of CSA standard Z605.

[en. B.C. Reg. 166/2019, s. 16.]



Division 45 — Indefinite Licence Suspensions





Certificate of service




45.01


The following Certificate of Service is prescribed for the purposes of
section 234 (4) (c) of the Act:












[en. B.C. Reg. 178/2000, s. 2.]



Division 46 — Remedial and Ignition Interlock Programs





Definitions




46.01


In this Division:


"conviction"
means an event that is a conviction of an offence under the

Criminal Code

;



"driving prohibition"

means a driving prohibition under the Act that is referred to in an
event;


"event"
means an event described in column 1 of the table to section 46.04;



"ignition interlock program points"

means the ignition interlock program points specified in column 3 of
the table to section 46.04, subject to sections 46.05, 46.06 and
46.07;



"remedial program points"

means the remedial program points specified in column 2 of the table
to section 46.04, subject to sections 46.05, 46.06 and 46.07.

[en. B.C. Reg. 12/2016, Sch.]





Mandatory remedial programs




46.02

(1)


This section sets out the conditions for the purposes of section 25.2
(1) and (2) of the Act in respect of remedial programs and components
of remedial programs.




(2)

Subject to subsections (3), (4) and (6), a person must complete a
remedial program or component of it specified by the superintendent
each time the remedial program points that the person acquires for an
event, together with the remedial program points for events that
occurred during the 5 years preceding that event, total 6 to 16
points.




(3)

The remedial program points for events that occurred during the 5
years referred to in subsection (2) do not include remedial program
points for a driving prohibition referred to in item 6 of the table to
section 46.04 notice of which was served before June 15, 2012.




(4)

If a person acquires remedial program points as the result of an event
and the person at the time of the event is already required to
participate in, but has not completed, a remedial program or component
of a remedial program under section 25.1 or 25.2 of the Act, the
person, subject to subsection (5), is not required to complete an
additional remedial program or component under section 25.2 of the Act
because of that event.




(5)

The remedial program points a person acquires as the result of an
event referred to in subsection (4) are included in the total remedial
program points of the person if the person acquires additional
remedial program points as a result of a new event that occurs within
the 5 years after the event referred to in subsection (4).




(6)

No person is required in any 5 year period to complete more than 2
remedial programs or components of remedial programs under section
25.2 of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 12/2016, Sch.]





Mandatory ignition interlock programs




46.03

(1)


This section sets out the conditions for the purposes of section 25.2
(1) and (2) of the Act in respect of ignition interlock programs.




(2)

Subject to subsections (3) and (5), a person must participate in an
ignition interlock program specified by the superintendent for the
following periods:




(a)

a period of 6 months if the ignition interlock program points that the
person acquires for an event and for events that occurred during the 5
years preceding that event total 9 to 10 points;




(b)

a period of 12 months if the ignition interlock program points that
the person acquires for an event and for events that occurred during
the 5 years preceding that event total 11 to 12 points;




(c)

a period of 18 months if the ignition interlock program points that
the person acquires for an event and for events that occurred during
the 5 years preceding that event total 13 to 14 points;




(d)

a period of 24 months if the ignition interlock program points that
the person acquires for an event and for events that occurred during
the 5 years preceding that event total 15 to 16 points.




(3)

The ignition interlock program points for events that occurred during
the 5 years referred to in subsection (2) (a) to (d) do not include
ignition interlock program points for a driving prohibition referred
to in item 6 of the table to section 46.04 notice of which was served
before June 15, 2012.




(4)

If, during the period that a person is required to participate in an
ignition interlock program under section 25.1, 25.2 or 233 (3) of the
Act, the person, because of a new event, acquires additional ignition
interlock program points and is required to participate in an ignition
interlock program for a period under subsection (2), the period under
subsection (2) is in addition to the period for which the person is
already required to participate.




(5)

No person is required in any 5 year period to participate in an
ignition interlock program under section 25.2 of the Act for more than
36 months.

[en. B.C. Reg. 12/2016, Sch.]





Points for events




46.04


The following table sets out, for the purposes of sections 46.02 and
46.03, the number of remedial program points and ignition interlock
program points a person acquires as a result of specified events:





Item



Column 1

Event




Column 2

Remedial

Program

Points




Column 3

Ignition

Interlock

Program

Points






1

Person has been served with a notice of driving prohibition for
the reason set out in section 94.1 (1) (a) of the Act

[has a concentration of alcohol in blood that exceeds .08]


6
6


1.1

Person has been served with a notice of driving prohibition for
the reason set out in section 94.1 (1) (a.1) of the Act

[operates a motor vehicle with a blood drug concentration
equal to or exceeding a prescribed value]


6
0


1.2

Person has been served with a notice of driving prohibition for
the reason set out in section 94.1 (1) (a.2) of the Act

[operates a motor vehicle with a blood alcohol concentration
and blood drug concentration equal to or exceeding prescribed
values]


6
6


1.3

Person has been served with a notice of driving prohibition for
the reason set out in section 94.1 (1) (a.3) of the Act

[operates a motor vehicle while impaired by a drug or a
combination of alcohol and a drug]


6
0


2

Person has been served with a notice of driving prohibition for
the reason set out in section 94.1 (1) (b) of the Act

[fails to comply with a demand under the
Criminal Code
to provide a sample of breath or blood]


6
6


3

Person has been served with a notice of driving prohibition
under section 215 (2) of the Act
[ability to drive affected by alcohol]

2
2


4

Person has been served with a notice of driving prohibition
under section 215 (3) of the Act

[ability to drive affected by a drug other than alcohol]


2
0


5

Person has been served with a notice of driving prohibition
under section 215.41 (3.1) of the Act because the approved
screening device registered a warn

[has a concentration of alcohol in blood that is not less than
.05]


3
3


6

Person has been served with a notice of driving prohibition
under section 215.41 (3.1) of the Act because the approved
screening device registered a fail

[has a concentration of alcohol in blood that is not less than
.08]


6
6


7

Person has been served with a notice of driving prohibition
under section 215.41 (4) of the Act

[fails to comply with a demand under the
Criminal Code
to provide a sample of breath]


6
6


8

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 253 (1)
(a) of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operates a motor vehicle while impaired by alcohol or a drug]


6
0


9

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 253 (1)
(b) of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operates a motor vehicle while having a concentration of
alcohol in blood that exceeds .08]


6
6


9.1

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 253 (3)
(a) of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operates a motor vehicle with a blood drug concentration
equal to or exceeding a prescribed value]


6
0


9.2

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 253 (3)
(b) of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operates a motor vehicle with a blood drug concentration in a
prescribed range]


3
0


9.3

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 253 (3)
(c) of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operates a motor vehicle with a blood alcohol concentration
and blood drug concentration equal to or exceeding prescribed
values]


6
6


10

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 254 (5) of
the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[fails or refuses, after operating a motor vehicle, to comply
with a demand under section 254]


6
6


11

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 255 (2) of
the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operates a motor vehicle while impaired by alcohol or a drug
and causes bodily harm]


6
6


12

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 255 (2.1)
of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operates a motor vehicle while having a concentration of
alcohol in blood that exceeds .08 and causes an accident
resulting in bodily harm]


6
6


13

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 255 (2.2)
of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[fails or refuses, after operating a motor vehicle, to comply
with a demand under section 254 and causes an accident
resulting in bodily harm]


6
6


14

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 255 (3) of
the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operates a motor vehicle while impaired by alcohol or a drug
and causes death]


6
6


15

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 255 (3.1)
of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operates a motor vehicle while having a concentration of
alcohol in blood that exceeds .08 and causes an accident
resulting in death]


6
6


16

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 255 (3.2)
of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[fails or refuses, after operating a motor vehicle, to comply
with a demand under section 254 and causes an accident
resulting in death]


6
6


17

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 320.14 (1)
(a) of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operation of motor vehicle while impaired by alcohol or a
drug]


6
0


18

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 320.14 (1)
(b) of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operation of motor vehicle and having blood alcohol
concentration equal to or exceeding 80 milligrams of alcohol
in blood]


6
6


19

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 320.14 (1)
(c) of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operation of motor vehicle and having blood drug
concentration equal to or exceeding prescribed value]


6
0


20

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 320.14 (1)
(d) of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operation of motor vehicle and having blood alcohol
concentration and blood drug concentration equal to or
exceeding prescribed values]


6
6


21

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 320.14 (2)
of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operation of motor vehicle while impaired by alcohol or a
drug and causing bodily harm]


6
6


22

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 320.14 (3)
of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operation of motor vehicle while impaired by alcohol or a
drug and causing death]


6
6


23

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 320.14 (4)
of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[operation of motor vehicle and having blood drug
concentration in prescribed range]


3
0


24

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 320.15 (1)
of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle
[failure or refusal to comply with demand]

6
6


25

Person has been convicted of an offence under section 320.15 (2)
of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[causing accident resulting in bodily harm and failure or
refusal to comply with demand]


6
6


26

Person has been convicted of an offence under section
320.15 (3) of the
Criminal Code
in respect of a motor vehicle

[causing accident resulting in death and failure or refusal to
comply with demand]


6
6




[en. B.C. Reg. 12/2016, Sch.; am. B.C. Regs. 206/2018, s. 4; 255/2018,
App., s. 4; 25/2019; 125/2019, App., s. 3.]






Multiple events from one or related actions




46.05

(1)


If a person is subject to a driving prohibition and to one or more
convictions due to one action or related actions,




(a)

the remedial program points for only one of those events are assigned
to the person and, if the remedial program points for one event are
higher than the other events, the higher number of points is assigned
to the person, and




(b)

the ignition interlock program points for only one of those events are
assigned to the person and, if the ignition interlock program points
for one event are higher than the other events, the higher number of
points is assigned to the person.




(2)

Without restricting the meaning of "related actions" in subsection
(1), the following actions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) are
related actions:




(a)

operating or having the care and control of a motor vehicle;




(b)

failing or refusing to comply with a demand to provide a breath sample
made as a result of the action described in paragraph (a).

[en. B.C. Reg. 12/2016, Sch.]





Driving prohibition or conviction removed from driving record




46.06

(1)


In this section,
"driving record"
means the driving record that is kept by the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia under section 82 (10) of the Act.




(2)

If a driving prohibition or conviction is removed from a person's
driving record, the remedial program points and ignition interlock
program points assigned for the driving prohibition or conviction must
be subtracted from the person's point total for the purposes of
calculating totals under sections 46.02 and 46.03.

[en. B.C. Reg. 12/2016, Sch.]





Suspension of points




46.07

(1)


If the superintendent receives a copy of an order of a court staying a
driving prohibition in respect of a person, the total remedial program
points and total ignition interlock program points for the person do
not include the points for the driving prohibition until the
superintendent is satisfied that the driving prohibition has been
confirmed.




(2)

If the superintendent stays a driving prohibition under section 94.6
(5) (a) or 215.5 (8) (a) of the Act in respect of a person, the total
remedial program points and total ignition interlock program points
for the person do not include the points for the driving prohibition
until the superintendent confirms or substitutes the driving
prohibition.




(3)

If the superintendent receives in respect of a person who is subject
to a conviction a copy of a direction of a judge made under section
261 (1) of the

Criminal Code

staying a prohibition order made as a result of the conviction, the
total remedial program points and total ignition interlock program
points for the person do not include the points for that conviction
until the superintendent is satisfied that




(a)

the stay is no longer in effect, or




(b)

the conviction has been confirmed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 12/2016, Sch.]





Medical condition




46.08

(1)


A person with a chronic medical condition that affects the person's
respiratory functions so that the person cannot produce the volume of
breath needed to operate an ignition interlock device specified by the
superintendent under section 25.2 of the Act is exempt from having to
participate in an ignition interlock program under that section.




(2)

The evidence required to establish the medical condition referred to
in subsection (1) is a signed statement from a medical practitioner in
a form satisfactory to the superintendent setting out that




(a)

the person has a chronic medical condition that affects the person's
respiratory functions, and




(b)

due to that medical condition, the person cannot produce the volume of
breath needed to operate an ignition interlock device specified by the
superintendent under section 25.2 of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 12/2016, Sch.]





Completion of remedial programs




46.09

(1)


A person who is required to participate in a remedial program under
section 25.2 of the Act must complete the program within one year
after the condition requiring completion of the program is added to
the person's driver's licence.




(2)

The superintendent must extend the time for a person to complete a
remedial program under section 25.2 of the Act if the superintendent
is satisfied that the person is unable to complete the remedial
program for reasons beyond the person's control, such as illness, jury
duty or incarceration.

[en. B.C. Reg. 12/2016, Sch.]





Fees




46.10

(1)


The prescribed fee for a remedial program under section 25.1 or 25.2
of the Act is $405.




(2)

The prescribed fee for an ignition interlock program under section
25.1, 25.2 or 233 (3) of the Act is $150.


[en. B.C. Reg. 12/2016, Sch.; am. B.C. Reg. 117/2016.]




Division 47 — Speed Limits and Traffic Rules

if Official Vehicle Parked on a Highway





Definition




47.01

(1)


In this Division,
"official vehicle"
means a vehicle that




(a)

is authorized under section 4.28 to display flashes of red, blue,
white or amber light, and




(b)

is displaying flashes of red, blue, white or amber light




(i)

in accordance with any limits or conditions set out in section 4.28 or
specified by the director under section 4.28 (1) (b),




(ii)

while the vehicle is stopped on or on the side of a highway, and




(iii)

while the vehicle's components are being operated, or a member of the
vehicle's crew is working, on or on the side of the highway.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a school bus is not an official vehicle for
the purposes of this Division.

[en. B.C. Reg. 227/2014, s. 1.]





When an official vehicle is stopped




47.02

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), a person driving a motor vehicle on a
highway in either direction must drive the motor vehicle at no more
than the following rate of speed when approaching or passing an
official vehicle:




(a)

70 km/h, if signs on the highway limit the rate of speed to 80 km/h or
more;




(b)

40 km/h, if signs on the highway limit the rate of speed to less than
80 km/h;




(c)

the rate of speed indicated on the signs, if signs on the highway
limit the rate of speed to less than 40 km/h.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a driver who approaches or passes an
official vehicle from the opposite direction on a highway that
contains a laned roadway or is divided by a median.




(3)

In addition to the requirements of subsection (1), a driver travelling
in a lane adjacent to the stopped official vehicle or in the same lane
in which the official vehicle is stopped must, if it is safe to do so,
and unless otherwise directed by a peace officer, move the driver's
motor vehicle into another lane of the laned roadway, if any.


[en. B.C. Reg. 148/2009, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 227/2014, s. 2; 64/2021,
s. 3.]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Motor Vehicle Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 318, ss. 4, 23, 25, 62, 83.1, 83.2, 90.3, 148.1,
209, 210, 212, 212.2 and 216.]



Contents
|



Division 1-4

|



Division 5

|



Division 6

|



Division 7-9

|



Division 10-18

|



Division 19-23

|



Division 24-25

|



Division 26-28

|



Division 29

|



Division 30-34

|



Division 35-36

|



Division 37-40

|



Division 40A-42

|



Division 43

|

Division 44-47



