





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 26/58

O.C. 1004/58







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after March 5, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Motor Vehicle Act


Motor Vehicle Act Regulations


[Last amended November 27, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 244/2023]



Division 26





Repealed





26.01-

26.011




Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 584/77.]






Repealed





26.02-

26.03




Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 204/80, s. (a).]






Repealed





26.04-

26.10




Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 118/2012.]




Division 27 — Driver Training





Definitions




27.01


In this Division:



"approved driver education course"

means a driver education course that is approved by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia under section 25 (8.1) (a) of the Act;



"driver training institute"

means a driver training school that is




(a)

a vocational training school operated by the government, or




(b)

a college or institute under the

College and Institute Act

or the

Institute of Technology Act

, a university, an independent school under the

Independent School Act

or a school under the

School Act

providing driver training to students;



"driver training instructor"

means a person who teaches the driving or operation of a motor
vehicle, but does not include a person who provides this instruction




(a)

without expectation of compensation or other consideration,




(b)

for off-highway, racetrack or closed circuit driving, or




(c)

as an employee to other employees of the same employer;



"driver training school"

means a person or organization that provides to individuals a program
of training or education in driving or operating motor vehicles, in
expectation of compensation from those individuals, but does not
include




(a)

a person or organization that provides instruction for off-highway,
racetrack or closed circuit driving,




(b)

a person who, as an employee, provides this instruction to other
employees of the same employer, or




(c)

a person who, under contract to an employer, provides this instruction
to employees of the employer;



"instructor trainer"

means a person who teaches a course of training or education for
practical driver training or theoretical driver training, or both, to
qualify a person for a driver training instructor's licence;



"instructor training facility"

means a person or other entity approved by the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia to provide a course of training or education for
practical driver training or theoretical driver training, or both, to
qualify a person for a driver training instructor's licence;


"operator"
means a person who directs, manages or is in charge of a driver
training school or a driver training institute;



"practical driver training"

means driver training conducted in or around a motor vehicle;


"retraining"
means training about the operation of a motor vehicle for a person who
holds a driver's licence or for a person who wishes to re-qualify for
a driver's licence;



"theoretical driver training"

means driver training conducted




(a)

in a classroom setting,




(b)

through a method of instruction that relies on indirect communication
between students and a driver training instructor,




(c)

over the internet or through another electronic method, or




(d)

a combination of methods described in paragraphs (a) to (c).


[en. B.C. Reg. 354/94; am. B.C. Regs. 317/96, s. 1; 229/98, s. 1;
257/98, App. 1, s. 1; 53/2008, s. 1; 100/2021,
Sch. 1, s. 2.]






Application




27.02


Section 27.04 (1) and section 27.05 do not apply to a driver training
institute.

[en. B.C. Reg. 354/94.]





Penalties




27.03

(1)


A person or institute that contravenes any of the following provisions
commits an offence and is liable to a fine of not more than
$2 000:




(a)

section 27.04 (1), (2), (7) or (8);




(b)

section 27.05 (1);




(c)

section 27.06 (1), (2), (3), (4), (9) or (11);




(d)

section 27.071 (2);




(e)

section 27.08 (3), (4) or (5);




(f)

section 27.09 (1), (2), (4) or (9);




(g)

section 27.10 (2) (a), (b), (d), (e), (f), (3) or (4).




(2)

If a corporation commits an offence under this section, an employee,
officer, director or agent of the corporation who authorized,
permitted or acquiesced in the offence commits an offence.




(3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may suspend, cancel or
refuse to issue or renew a driver training school licence or driver
training instructor's licence for any of the following reasons:




(a)

the licensee engages in fraudulent, deceptive or unconscionable
practices in the operation of a driver training school, in the conduct
of driver training or in applying for a licence;




(b)

the licensee aids, abets or counsels fraudulent practices by an
applicant to obtain a driver's licence of any classification or driver
training instructor's licence of any classification or to requalify
for a driver's licence or driver training instructor's licence;




(c)

the licensee fails to maintain or provide to the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia the records required under this Division;




(d)

the licensee is convicted under the

Criminal Code

of an offence that is




(i)

punishable by imprisonment for 5 years or more,




(ii)

an offence that is sexual or indecent,




(iii)

an offence of violence, or




(iv)

an offence of operating, care or control of a motor vehicle,


or, in a jurisdiction outside of Canada, of an analogous offence;




(e)

failure of the applicant or licensee to comply with any requirement of
this Division;




(f)

the licensee teaches, or permits a student to be taught, the knowledge
tests administered by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,
or possesses these tests, without the consent of the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia.




(3.1)

If a licensee is charged with an offence referred to in subsection (3)
(d), the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may suspend or
delay the issue or renewal of a driver training school licence or
driver training instructor's licence pending the outcome of the
proceeding for the offence in order to determine whether it should act
under subsection (3) (d) at that later date.




(4)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may suspend, cancel or
refuse to issue or to renew a driver training school licence on
conviction of the owner, or a person directly interested in the driver
training school's business, of an offence concerning dishonesty,
violence or indecency, or on cancellation of a licence of an employee
of the driver training school for dishonesty, violence or indecency
authorized or condoned by the owner or operator of the driver training
school.




(5)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must not cancel a
licence under this Division until the holder is first given an
opportunity to show cause why cancellation is not warranted.




(6)

If a licence is cancelled or suspended under this Division, the
licensee must deliver the licence to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia within 10 days.


[en. B.C. Reg. 354/94; am. B.C. Regs. 317/96, s. 1; 108/97, ss. 1 and
2; 413/97, App. 1, s. 20; 354/2010, Sch., s. 1; 338/2012, Sch. 2, s.
1; 64/2017, s. (a); 100/2021, Sch. 1, s. 3; 306/2021, s. 1.]






Licensing




27.04

(1)


No person or body may act as or be held out as being a driver training
school except the holder of a valid and subsisting driver training
school licence issued under this Division.




(2)

No person may act, or purport to act, as a driver training instructor
unless the person is the holder of a valid and subsisting driver
training instructor's licence issued under this Division.




(3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must cause a driver
training school licence, or a driver training instructor's licence, to
be issued to an applicant on being satisfied that the applicant has
met the qualifications set out in this Division and has paid the fee
prescribed in the Motor Vehicle Fees Regulation.




(4)

A driver training school licence must be issued for a period ending at
midnight on the last day of the 11th month following the month of
issuance, and any duplicate of it expires at the same time as the
original.




(5)

A driver training instructor's licence must be issued for a period
ending at midnight on the last day of the 23rd month following the
month of issuance, and any duplicate of it expires at the same time as
the original.




(6)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may refuse to issue a
driver training school licence or a driver training instructor's
licence if the applicant is indebted to the government or to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(7)

A driver training school must apply for a driver training school
licence for each place of business at which driver training is
conducted.




(8)

If the name of a licensee is changed the licensee must apply for a
duplicate licence within 10 days and must submit proof satisfactory to
the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia of the change of name.


[en. B.C. Reg. 354/94; am. B.C. Regs. 317/96, s. 1; 64/2021, s. 8.]






Driver training school and instructor training facility security




27.05

(1)


Every driver training school and instructor training facility must
furnish and maintain security with the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia under the

Bonding Act

and in accordance with this section.




(2)

If a driver training school provides one or more driver education
courses for a Class 1, 2, 3 or 4 driver's licence or for an
endorsement to operate vehicles equipped with air brakes, the security
maintained by the driver training school for the courses must equal $3
500 for each full time or part time instructor employed or retained by
the school to provide one or more of those driver education courses.




(3)

If a driver training school provides one or more driver education
courses of a type not referred to in subsection (2), the security
maintained by the driver training school for the courses must equal $2
000 for each full time or part time instructor employed or retained by
the school to provide one or more of those driver education courses.




(4)

For an instructor training facility the security must equal $3 500 for
each full time or part time instructor employed or retained by the
facility to provide instructor training courses.




(5)

If a driver training school or instructor training facility provides
courses referred to in more than one subsection of subsections (2) to
(4), the security maintained by the person or organization must be the
higher of the amounts required under the applicable subsections.




(6)

The security for a driver training school or instructor training
facility referred to in subsection (1) must be furnished to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia in advance for each driver
training instructor employed or retained by




(a)

the driver training school during the term of the driver training
school licence, or




(b)

the instructor training facility for each calendar year.




(7)

The security required under subsection (1) may be in any of the
following forms:




(a)

cash;




(b)

a bond of a person authorized under the

Financial Institutions Act

to carry on insurance business;




(c)

a term deposit for up to 3 years registered in the name of the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(8)

A driver training school that provides only driver education courses
of a type not referred to in subsection (2) and an instructor training
facility referred to in subsection (4) are not required to maintain
security in excess of $10 000.




(9)

The highest amount of security established during the term of the
licence for a driving training school or during the calendar year for
an instructor training facility must not be allowed to decrease.


[en. B.C. Reg. 53/2008, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 204/2011, Sch. B, s. 8.]






Standards and obligations of driver training schools




27.06

(1)


A driver training school must post and keep posted in a conspicuous
place in each place of business




(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2004, s. (a).]




(b)

the driver training school licence, and




(c)

the driver training instructor's licence issued to each instructor
employed by or under contract to provide driver training at the
school.




(2)

A driver training school must provide a written statement to each
student, before commencement of training and before the payment of any
fees, disclosing all of the following:




(a)

the name and address of the driver training school;




(b)

the fees for enrollment, tuition, services, equipment and vehicle
rentals;




(c)

the extra charges that might be incurred by that student;




(d)

how many persons can be in the driver training school vehicle during
the student's lesson time and their reason for being in the vehicle;




(e)

the actual amount of practice driving time the student will receive
during each lesson;




(f)

the actual fee for each lesson;




(g)

the refund policies of the driver training school.




(3)

A driver training school must provide to each person to whom driver
training is supplied a written itemized statement of services provided
or rental charged and a receipt for each payment made.




(4)

A driver training school must maintain records as required by the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, including but not limited
to the following, for a period of 6 years if the record was created on
or after June 1, 2021 or a period of 3 years if the record was created
before June 1, 2021:




(a)

records of students trained, including each student's name, driver's
licence number, class of driver's licence, date, time and length of
each lesson, name of instructor of each lesson, subject taught, type
of training and fee charged for each lesson;




(b)

in respect of a mandatory entry-level training course,




(i)

a record, in the form specified by the corporation, of each student's
practical assessments and theoretical assessments,




(ii)

a record, in the form specified by the corporation, of students who
have successfully completed a mandatory entry-level training course,
and




(iii)

a record, in the form specified by the corporation, of students who
have been issued a declaration of completion;




(c)

records of each instructor employed or contracted, including the
instructor's name, class of driver's licence, driver's licence number,
a copy of the driver training instructor's licence and dates of any
refresher training completed by the driver training instructor;




(d)

records of all vehicles used for driver training, including a copy of
each vehicle's registration and proof of insurance coverage.




(4.1)

A driver training school that provides a mandatory entry-level
training course must issue a declaration of completion, in the form
specified by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, to a
student who successfully completes a mandatory entry-level training
course.




(4.2)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may, with notice, cancel
a declaration of completion if any of the following occurs:




(a)

the declaration was issued to a person despite the person not
satisfying a requirement for the issuance of the declaration;




(b)

the declaration of completion was issued in error;




(c)

the declaration of completion was issued with an error in the
information on the declaration.




(4.3)

If a declaration of completion is cancelled in accordance with
subsection (4.2) (c), the driver training school that issued the
cancelled declaration of completion must issue a corrected declaration
of completion.




(5)

A driver training school must, during regular business hours and all
other reasonable times, permit the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia or designate to




(a)

visit premises used for the operation of the driver training school,




(b)

examine all records and other material and equipment used for the
operation of the driver training school,




(b.1)

inspect vehicles used for the operation of the driver training school,




(c)

attend and monitor the conduct of driver training lessons, and




(d)

copy records and other material pertaining to the operation of the
driver training school.




(6)

A driver training school must not employ a person to conduct driver
training on its behalf if the person does not hold a valid and
subsisting driver training instructor's licence.




(7)

A driver training school must return the driver training school
licence to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia within 10
days of ceasing to carry on business as a driver training school.




(8)

A driver training school must maintain a registered office in British
Columbia at which all communications and notices may be served and at
which records of the driver training school must be maintained.




(9)

If the address of the registered office of a driver training school is
changed, the driver training school must notify the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia in writing within 10 days of the
change.




(10)

A driver training school must, within 10 days of receipt of a request
from the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia and in the form
requested, update or provide further details as specified in the
request concerning




(a)

information provided at the time application was made for the school's
driver training school licence, or




(b)

records respecting the operation of the driver training school that
the driver training school is required to maintain under this
Division.




(11)

A driver training school must return the driver training instructor's
licence to a licensee immediately on ceasing to employ the licensee.




(12)

A driver training school must use driver training course curriculum,
facilities and equipment acceptable to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia.




(13)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2004, s. (d).]


[en. B.C. Reg. 354/94; am. B.C. Regs. 317/96, s. 1; 228/2004, ss. (a)
to (d); 100/2021, Sch. 1, s. 4.]






Instructor training facilities




27.061


An instructor training facility must, during regular business hours
and all other reasonable times, permit the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia or designate to




(a)

visit premises used for the operation of the instructor training
facility,




(b)

examine all records and other material and equipment used for the
operation of the instructor training facility,




(c)

inspect vehicles used for the operation of the instructor training
facility,




(d)

attend and monitor the conduct of instructor training courses, and




(e)

copy records and other material pertaining to the operation of the
instructor training facility.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2021, Sch. 1, s. 5.]





Standards, qualifications and procedures for driver training
instructor's licence applications




27.07

(1)


An applicant for a driver training instructor's licence must




(a)

have a driving record acceptable to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia that shows less than 10 demerit points within the
past 2 years, and no convictions under the

Criminal Code

concerning driving of a motor vehicle or convictions in any other
jurisdiction for offences similar to those under the

Criminal Code

, as determined by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,
concerning driving of a motor vehicle for 3 years before the
application,




(b)

provide a police check acceptable to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia, and the application may be rejected if the police
check indicates a conviction for an offence involving dishonesty,
violence or indecency within the past 5 years,




(c)

provide proof of driving experience and qualification acceptable to
the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia indicating that




(i)

if the application is for a Class 1 driver training instructor's
licence for practical driver training or theoretical driver training,
the applicant




(A)

holds a British Columbia Class 1 driver's licence,




(B)

has held a British Columbia Class 1 driver's licence, or a similar
driver's licence from another jurisdiction, as determined by the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, for at least 3 years,




(C)

has held any class of driver's licence that is not a learner's licence
for at least 5 years,




(D)

has successfully completed an instructor training course to teach the
Class 1 mandatory entry-level training course, and




(E)

if the application is for a Class 1 driver training instructor's
licence for theoretical driver training, the applicant must hold a
Class 1 driver training instructor's licence for practical driver
training,




(i.1)

if the application is for a Class 2 or 3 driver training instructor's
licence for practical driver training or only theoretical driver
training, the applicant




(A)

holds a British Columbia Class 1, 2 or 3 driver's licence,




(B)

has held that licence, or a similar driver's licence from another
jurisdiction, as determined by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia, for at least 3 years,




(C)

has held any class of driver's licence that is not a learner's licence
for at least 5 years,




(D)

if the application is for a Class 2 driver training instructor's
licence for theoretical driver training, the applicant must hold a
Class 2 driver training instructor's licence for practical driver
training, and




(E)

if the application is for a Class 3 driver training instructor's
licence for theoretical driver training, the applicant must hold a
Class 3 driver training instructor's licence for practical driver
training,




(ii)

if the application is for a Class 4 driver training instructor's
licence for practical driver training, the applicant has a Class 4
British Columbia driver's licence and has held a Class 4 or 5 driver's
licence, or a similar driver's licence from another jurisdiction, as
determined by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, for at
least 3 years,




(iii)

if the application is for a Class 5 or 7 driver training instructor's
licence for practical driver training, the applicant has a British
Columbia driver's licence and has held a British Columbia Class 5
driver's licence, or a similar driver's licence from another
jurisdiction, as determined by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia, for at least 3 years,




(iv)

if the application is for a Class 6 or 8 driver training instructor's
licence for practical driver training, the applicant has a British
Columbia Class 6 driver's licence and has held one, or a similar
driver's licence from another jurisdiction, as determined by the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, for at least 3 years,




(v)

if the application is for a driver training instructor's licence for
theoretical driver training, the applicant has, for at least 3 years,
held a British Columbia driver's licence or a similar driver's licence
from another jurisdiction, as determined by the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia, and




(vi)

if the application is for a driver training instructor's licence to
teach an approved driver education course, the applicant has a British
Columbia Class 5 or 6 driver training instructor's licence,




(d)

be at least 19 years of age and be the holder of a valid and
subsisting British Columbia driver's licence of a class permitting
operation of the class or type of vehicle for which the applicant
intends to provide practical driver training, and




(e)

file a medical report acceptable to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia, if




(i)

the application is for a driver training instructor's licence for
practical driver training, and




(ii)

the applicant did not hold a valid driver training instructor's
licence for practical driver training within 24 months of the date of
application.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2004, s. (d).]




(3)

An instructor training facility must not accept an applicant for
training unless the applicant meets the standards and qualifications
specified in this section, except the qualification referred to in
section 27.07 (1) (c) (i) (D).




(4)

On acceptance by the instructor training facility, the applicant must
complete an approved driver training instructor training course, and
qualify on examinations, as required by the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia.




(5)

Subsection (4), other than the requirements under that subsection
concerning examinations, does not apply if the applicant presents
proof of equivalent training acceptable to the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia.


[en. B.C. Reg. 354/94; am. B.C. Regs. 317/96, s. 1; 413/97, App. 1, s.
2; 229/98, ss. 2 and 3; 257/98, App. 1, s. 2; 228/2004, ss. (d) and
(e); 338/2012, Sch. 2, s. 2; 64/2017, ss. (a) and (b);
100/2021, Sch. 1, s. 6.]






Instructor training facility records




27.071

(1)


In this section,
"student"
means a student participating in a driver training instructor course
for a driver training instructor's licence.




(2)

An instructor training facility must maintain records as required by
the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, including but not
limited to the following, for a period of 6 years:




(a)

records of students trained, including each student's name, driver's
licence number, class of driver's licence, date, time and length of
each course, subject taught, type of training and fee charged for each
course;




(b)

in respect of an instructor training course to teach a mandatory
entry-level training course,




(i)

a record, in the form specified by the corporation, of each student's
practical assessments and theoretical assessments, and




(ii)

a record, in the form specified by the corporation, of students who
have successfully completed an instructor training course to teach a
mandatory entry-level training course;




(c)

records of each instructor trainer employed or contracted, including
the instructor trainer's name, class of driver's licence, driver's
licence number, a copy of the instructor trainer's licence and dates
of any refresher training completed by the instructor trainer;




(d)

records of all vehicles used for instructor training, including a copy
of each vehicle's registration and proof of insurance coverage.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2021, Sch. 1, s. 7.]





Obligations of driver training instructor




27.08

(1)


A driver training instructor must




(a)

have a driving record acceptable to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia that shows less than 10 demerit points within the
past 2 years, and no convictions under the

Criminal Code

concerning driving a motor vehicle or convictions in any other
jurisdiction for offences analogous to those under the

Criminal Code

concerning driving a motor vehicle, within the past 3 years,




(b)

provide, on request, a police check acceptable to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, and if the police check indicates a
conviction for an offence described in section 27.03 (3) (d) the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may suspend, cancel or
refuse to issue or renew the driver training instructor's licence, and




(c)

provide, on request, a medical report acceptable to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia if the driver training instructor's
licence permits the conduct of practical driver training.




(1.1)

If a driver training instructor is charged with an offence referred to
in subsection (1) (b), the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
may delay acting under subsection (1) (b) pending the outcome of the
proceeding for the offence in order to determine whether it should act
under subsection (1) (b) at that later date.




(2)

A driver training instructor must complete training courses and
qualify on examinations or re-examinations from time to time as may be
required by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(3)

A driver training instructor must provide the driver training
instructor's licence to the driver training school at which the driver
training instructor is employed or is under contract to provide driver
training.




(4)

A driver training instructor must not provide driver training to an
individual who is not enrolled at the driver training school at which
the driver training instructor is employed.




(5)

A driver training instructor or driver training school must not
provide practical driver training to a person who does not have a
driver's licence.




(6)

A driver training instructor conducting practical driver training must
hold a valid current British Columbia driver's licence of the
appropriate classification.




(7)

A driver training instructor must use driver training course
curriculum acceptable to the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia.


[en. B.C. Reg. 354/94; am. B.C. Regs. 317/96, s. 1; 108/97, ss. 3 and
4; 413/97, App. 1, s. 2; 229/98, s. 3; 338/2012, Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Driver training vehicles




27.09

(1)


Vehicles used by a driver training school or driver training
instructor for the training of persons who wish to obtain a Class 5 or
7 driver's licence must have




(a)

dual brake pedals,




(b)

dual clutch pedals for manual transmission vehicles,




(c)

a rear view mirror firmly mounted so as to give the instructor a clear
and unobstructed view of the highway to the rear of the vehicle and
separate from mirrors that the vehicle was originally equipped with
when manufactured, and




(d)

the words "student driver" in legible printed upper case letters not
less than 50 mm high with the lettering and background colours in
contrasting shades displayed on the top or rear of the vehicle and
visible to the rear.




(e)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2004, s. (f).]




(2)

Vehicles owned or leased by a driver training school or driver
training instructor and in use for the training of drivers who wish to
obtain a Class 4 driver's licence must have




(a)

the words "student driver" in legible printed upper case letters not
less than 50 mm high with the lettering and background colours in
contrasting shades displayed on the top or rear of the vehicle and
visible to the rear.




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2004, s. (f).]




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2004, s. (f).]




(4)

Vehicles, including towed vehicles, used by a driver training school
or driver training instructor for training of drivers who wish to
obtain a Class 1, 2, or 3 driver's licence must have




(a)

the words "student driver" in legible printed upper case letters not
less than 75 mm high with the lettering and background colours in
contrasting shades displayed on the top or rear of the vehicle and
visible to the rear.




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2004, s. (f).]




(5)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2004, s. (f).]




(6)

Vehicles used for driver training must meet inspection standards in
Division 25.




(7)

A private vehicle that is used for training of persons with
disabilities who wish to obtain a Class 5 or 7 driver's licence and
that has modifications to its controls in order to be operated is
exempt from the requirements of this section other than subsection (1)
(d).




(8)

Vehicles used for retraining are exempt from the requirements of this
section.




(9)

A driver training school or driver training instructor must not
provide Class 6 or 8 motorcycle practical driver training to a student
on a highway if the student is not wearing a reflective vest of a type
acceptable to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.


[en. B.C. Reg. 354/94; am. B.C. Regs. 317/96, s. 1; 229/98, s. 3;
257/98, App. 1, s. 3; 228/2004, s. (f).]






Other requirements




27.10

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2004, s. (f).]




(2)

A driver training school, its operators, agents or employees, or a
driver training instructor, must not




(a)

represent themselves as a representative, agent or employee of the
government,




(b)

solicit business in an office of the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia or its authorized agents,




(c)

engage in false, deceptive or misleading advertising or make a false,
deceptive or misleading statement,




(d)

state or imply that issuance of a driver's licence is guaranteed on
completion of the driver training provided,




(e)

advertise, state or imply that the school or its employees are
approved, supervised, recommended or endorsed by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia or the government, except that




(i)

the words "licensed under the

Motor Vehicle Act

" may be used,




(ii)

in the case of a licensed driver training school, the words "licensed
as a driver training school under the

Motor Vehicle Act

" may be used,




(iii)

in the case of a licensed driver training instructor, the words
"licensed as a driver training instructor under the

Motor Vehicle Act

" may be used,




(iv)

in the case of an approved driver education course, the words "driver
education course approved by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia" or "driver education course approved by ICBC" may be used,
and




(v)

in the case of a mandatory entry-level training course, the words
"mandatory entry-level training course approved by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia", "mandatory entry-level training
course approved by ICBC" or "MELT course approved by ICBC" may be
used, or




(f)

advertise, or cause advertising to be issued, which does not contain
the name of the driver training school or, in the case of a driver
training instructor, the name of the driver training instructor.




(g)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2004, s. (f).]




(3)

In respect of a mandatory entry-level training course, a driver
training school, its operators, agents, employees or contractors, or a
driver training instructor, must not




(a)

represent to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia that a
person




(i)

has successfully completed a practical assessment or theoretical
assessment if the person has not,




(ii)

has successfully completed a mandatory entry-level training course if
the person has not, or




(iii)

has been issued a declaration of completion if the person has not,




(b)

alter or issue a record of an assessment conducted for the purposes of
a mandatory entry-level training course to indicate that a person has
successfully completed the assessment if the person has not, or




(c)

alter or issue a declaration of completion to indicate that a person
has successfully completed a mandatory entry-level training course if
a person has not.




(4)

A person must not alter, falsify or manufacture a declaration of
completion.


[en. B.C. Reg. 354/94; am. B.C. Regs. 317/96, s. 5; 413/97, App. 1, s.
21; 229/98, s. 4; 228/2004, s. (f); 100/2021, Sch. 1, s. 8; 306/2021,
s. 2.]






Driver training course curriculum




27.11


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may set policy
guidelines for the conduct of courses of driver training and the
training of driver training instructors, including curriculum,
facilities and equipment, and may monitor the conduct of courses for
licensees under this Division.

[en. B.C. Reg. 354/94; am. B.C. Reg. 317/96, s. 1.]



Division 28 — Point System





Point penalties on driving record




28.01


If a person is convicted of an offence, the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia must record on the driving record of that person the
number of point penalties for that offence as set out in the Schedule
to this Division.


[en. B.C. Reg. 413/97, App. 1, s. 22; am. B.C. Reg. 59/2016, App. 2,
s. 1.]






Repealed




28.02


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 107/2016, s. 1.]






Repealed




28.03


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 26/58, s. 28.03 (2).]




Schedule


[en. B.C. Reg. 389/85; am. B.C. Regs. 274/86, Sch. 3, s. 1; 49/87, Sch.
2; 374/87, Sch. 2; 427/87; 428/87; 472/88; 257/98, App. 1, s. 4;
178/2000, s. 1; 173/2005, s. (b) (ii); 148/2009, s. 1; 177/2009, s. 2;
308/2009, Sch. 3; 97/2012, App. 2, s. 1; 187/2014; 116/2015, App. 1;
107/2016, ss. 2 and 3; 206/2018, ss. 2 and 3; 255/2018, App. ss. 2 and
3; 235/2021, Sch. 1, s. 2; 76/2022, s. 11.]


Table 1


For breaches listed in this table, the number of point penalties
recorded shall be 2.





Motor Vehicle Act



Description of Offence



1
Section 121


Driving maintenance or construction vehicle without due regard for
safety



2
Section 123

Fail to obey police direction


3
Section 125

Disobey traffic control device


4
Section 127 (1) (a) (ii)

Fail to yield to pedestrian


5
Section 127 (1) (a) (iii)

Fail to yield to vehicle


6
Section 128 (1) (a)

Yellow light at intersection


6.1
Section 128 (1) (a)


Yellow light, intersection — no stop before intersection



7
Section 128 (2) (a)

Yellow light — no intersection


8
Section 129 (1)

Red light at intersection


9
Section 129 (3)


Fail to yield — right turn — red light



10
Section 129 (4) (b)


Fail to yield — left turn — red light



11
Section 129 (5) (a)

Red light — no intersection


12
Section 130 (1) (a)

Disobey green arrow


13
Section 130 (1) (a)

Fail to yield on green arrow


13.1
Section 130 (2) (a) (i)


Fail to stop — yellow arrow — crosswalk



13.2
Section 130 (2) (a) (ii)


Fail to stop — yellow arrow — intersection



13.3
Section 130 (2) (b)


Fail to yield — yellow arrow — pedestrian



14
Section 131 (1) (a)


Flashing red light at intersection



15
Section 131 (2) (a)


Flashing red light — no intersection



16
Section 131 (3) (a)


Yellow flashing light at intersection



17
Section 131 (4) (a)


Yellow flashing light — no intersection



18
Section 131 (5) (a)


Fail to yield at green flashing light



19
Section 134


Failing to obey lane direction control signal



20
Section 143

Drive over newly painted lines


21
Section 151 (a)

Unsafe lane change


22
Section 151 (b)

Lane change solid line


23
Section 151 (c)

Change lanes without signal


24
Section 151 (d)

Left turn from wrong lane


25
Section 151 (e)

Right turn from wrong lane


26
Spent



27
Section 151 (f)

Illegal pass on laned roadway


28
Section 151 (g)

Slow moving in wrong lane


29
Section 158 (1)

Pass on right


30
Section 158 (2) (a)

Unsafe pass on right


31
Section 158 (2) (b)

Pass on right off roadway


32
Section 161

Disobey traffic sign or signal


33
Section 166


Improper left turn — no intersection



34
Section 167


Improper right turn — no intersection



35
Section 168 (a)

Unsafe U-turn


36
Section 168 (b) (iii)

Prohibited U-turn


36.1
Section 168 (b) (iv)

U-turn — intersection


36.2
Section 168 (b) (v)

U-turn — business district


37
Section 169

Unsafe start


38
Section 170 (1)

No signal on turn


39
Section 170 (2)

Inadequate signal on turn


40
Section 170 (3)


Fail to signal stop or decrease in speed



41
Section 171 (2)


Drive vehicle without signal device



42
Section 172 (2)


No proper signalling equipment for right-hand drive vehicle



43
Section 173


Fail to yield at uncontrolled intersection



44
Section 173

Disobey yield sign


45
Section 174

Fail to yield on left turn


46
Section 174


Fail to yield to left turn vehicle



47
Section 175 (1)

Fail to yield after stop


48
Section 175 (2)


Fail to yield to vehicle leaving stop



49
Section 176 (1)

Emerging vehicle fail to stop


50
Section 176 (2)

Emerging vehicle fail to yield


51
Section 181


Failing to exercise duty to pedestrian



52
Section 185 (1)

Fail to stop at railway crossing


53
Section 185 (1)

Leave railway crossing unsafely


54
Section 185 (2)

Drive past railway crossing gate


55
Section 185 (4) (e)


Commercial vehicle — no stop at railway



56
Section 185 (5)


Fail to proceed with caution at railway crossing



57
Section 193

Reverse into intersection


58
Section 193

Reverse when unsafe


59
Section 194 (1)

Operate motorcycle — not on seat


60
Section 194 (4) (a)


Permit passenger under 16 to be unlawfully seated



61
Section 194 (10)


Operate motorcycle more than 2 abreast



62
Section 196


Improper operation of vehicle on canyon defile or on mountain road



63
Section 197

Coasting down grade illegally


64
Section 198

Follow fire truck too closely


65
Section 198

Park near fire truck


66
Section 199

Drive over fire hose


67
Section 200

Drive on sidewalk


68
Section 203 (1)

Open door while unsafe







a.


Section 155 (f) of R.S.B.C. 1979, c. 288 was repealed by
1985-78-13.





Table 2


For breaches listed in this table, the number of point penalties
recorded shall be 3.





Motor Vehicle Act



Description of Offence



1
Section 24 (1)

No driver's licence


2

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 107/2016, s. 2.]





3
Section 25 (15)


Drive contrary to driver's licence restriction





Item 3 does not apply to an offence for violating a specific
driver's licence requirement,

restriction or condition that is set out in another item in a
table to the Schedule.



4
Section 68


Failing to fulfill duty of driver involved in accident



5
Section 73 (1)

Fail to stop for police


6
Section 73 (2)

Fail to state name and address


7
Section 140

Disobey construction signs


8
Section 141

Disobey flagger


9
Section 144 (1) (c)

Speed relative to conditions


10
Section 145 (1)

Slow driving


11
Section 146 (1)

Speed in municipality


12
Section 146 (1)

Speed outside municipality


13
Section 146 (3)

Speed against highway sign


14
Section 146 (5)

Speed against area sign


15
Section 146 (7)

Speed against municipal sign


16
Section 146 (11)

Speed on municipal lane


17
Section 147 (1)

Speed in school zone


18
Section 147 (2)

Speed in playground zone


18.1
Section 148 (1)

Excessive speed


19
Section 149

Fail to stop for school bus


20
Section 150 (1)

Fail to keep right


21
Section 150 (2)

Slow vehicle not on right


22
Section 150 (3)


Fail to keep right of rotary traffic island



22.1
Section 151.1 (3)

Improper use of leftmost lane


23
Section 154


Passing when meeting oncoming vehicle



24
Section 155 (1) (a)

Cross solid double line


25
Section 155 (1) (b) (i)


Fail to keep right of double broken/solid line



26
Section 155 (1) (b) (ii)

Cross solid broken line


27
Section 155 (1) (c)


Fail to keep right of single broken or solid line



28
Section 157 (1) (a)

Fail to pass at safe distance


29
Section 157 (1) (b)

Fail to complete pass safely


30
Section 157 (2) (a)

Fail to yield to passing vehicle


31
Section 157 (2) (b)

Increase speed while being passed


32
Section 159

Unsafe pass on left


33
Section 160

Pass without clear view


34
Section 162 (1)

Follow too closely


35
Section 162 (2)


Commercial vehicle — follow too closely



36
Section 162 (3)


Fail to leave sufficient space between vehicles for passing
purposes



37
Section 163 (a)

Drive over highway divider


38
Section 163 (b)


Fail to keep right on divided highway



39
Section 164 (1)

Enter controlled access highway


40
Section 164 (2)

Leave controlled access highway


41
Section 165 (5)

Improper turn at intersection


42
Section 177


Fail to yield for emergency vehicle



43
Section 179 (1)

Fail to yield to pedestrian


44
Section 179 (3)


Pass vehicle yielding for pedestrian



45
Section 179 (4)

Disobey school guard


46
Section 179 (4)

Disobey school patrol


47
Section 186

Disobey stop sign


48
Section 195 (1) (a)

Drive while control obstructed


49
Section 195 (1) (b)

Drive while view obstructed


50
Section 195 (2)

Obstruct driver



50.1 and 51 Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 107/2016, s. 2.]




Motor Vehicle Act Regulations



Description of Offence



1
Section 7A.01

Unnecessary noise


2
Section 47.02


Fail to slow down or move over near stopped official vehicle





Table 2.1


For breaches listed in this table, the number of point penalties
recorded shall be 4.





Motor Vehicle Act



Description of Offence



1
Section 214.2 (1)


Use an electronic device while driving



2
Section 214.2 (2)

Email or text while driving



Motor Vehicle Act Regulations



Description of Offence




1 and 2 Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 235/2021, Sch. 1, s. 2.]





Table 3


For breaches listed in this table, the number of point penalties
recorded shall be 6.





Motor Vehicle Act



Description of Offence



1
Section 144 (1) (a)

Careless driving


2
Section 144 (1) (b)


Driving without reasonable consideration




Criminal Code



Description of Offence



1
Section 253 (3) (b)


Operation of motor vehicle with blood drug concentration in
prescribed range



2
Section 320.14 (4)


Operation of motor vehicle and having blood drug concentration in
prescribed range





Table 4


For breaches listed in this table, the number of point penalties
recorded shall be 10.





Motor Vehicle Act



Description of Offence



1
Section 90.4

Driving while suspended


2
Section 95


Driving while prohibited or suspended



3

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 257/98, App. 1, s. 4.]



4
Section 100

Failing to stop for peace officer


5
Section 102


Driving while prohibited or suspended



6
Section 103

Driving while suspended


7
Section 224


Driving with more than 80 milligrams of alcohol in blood



8
Section 226

Refusal to give blood sample


9
Section 234 (1)

Driving while suspended



Criminal Code



Description of Offence



1
Section 220


Causing death by criminal negligence



2
Section 221


Causing injury by criminal negligence



3
Section 233 (1)

Criminal negligence


4
Section 233 (2)


Failing to fulfill duty of person having care, charge or control
of

vehicle involved in accident



5
Section 233 (4)

Dangerous driving


6
Section 234

Driving while ability impaired


7
Section 235

Breath sample not provided


8
Section 236


Driving with more than 80 milligrams of alcohol in blood



9
Section 236

Manslaughter


10
Section 249 (1) (a)


Dangerous operation of a motor vehicle



11
Section 249 (3)


Dangerous operation causing bodily harm



12
Section 249 (4)

Dangerous operation causing death


12.1
Section 249.1 (1)

Flight


12.2
Section 249.1 (3)


Flight causing bodily harm or death



12.3
Section 249.2


Causing death by criminal negligence (street racing)



12.4
Section 249.3


Causing bodily harm by criminal negligence (street racing)



12.5
Section 249.4


Dangerous operation of a motor vehicle while street racing



13
Section 252 (1)


Failure to stop at scene of accident



14
Section 253 (1) (a)


Operation of motor vehicle while ability impaired by alcohol or
drugs



15
Section 253 (1) (b)


Operation of motor vehicle with more than 80 milligrams of alcohol
in blood



15.1
Section 253 (3) (a)


Operation of motor vehicle with blood drug concentration equal to
or exceeding prescribed value



15.2
Section 253 (3) (c)


Operation of motor vehicle with blood alcohol concentration and
blood drug concentration equal to or exceeding prescribed values



16
Section 254 (5)


Failure or refusal to provide sample of breath or blood



17
Section 255 (2)


Operation of a motor vehicle while impaired causing bodily harm



17.1
Section 255 (2.1)


Causing bodily harm while driving with more than 80 milligrams of
alcohol in blood



17.2
Section 255 (2.2)


Causing bodily harm and failure or refusal to provide sample of
breath or blood



18
Section 255 (3)


Operation of a motor vehicle while impaired causing death



18.1
Section 255 (3.1)


Causing death while driving with more than 80 milligrams of
alcohol in blood



18.2
Section 255 (3.2)


Causing death and failure or refusal to provide sample of breath
or blood



19
Section 259 (4)


Operation of motor vehicle while disqualified



20
Section 320.13 (1)

Dangerous operation


21
Section 320.13 (2)


Dangerous operation causing bodily harm



22
Section 320.13 (3)

Dangerous operation causing death


23
Section 320.14 (1) (a)


Operation of motor vehicle while impaired by alcohol or a drug



24
Section 320.14 (1) (b)


Operation of motor vehicle and having blood alcohol concentration
equal to or exceeding 80 milligrams of alcohol in blood



25
Section 320.14 (1) (c)


Operation of motor vehicle and having blood drug concentration
equal to or exceeding prescribed value



26
Section 320.14 (1) (d)


Operation of motor vehicle and having blood alcohol concentration
and blood drug concentration equal to or exceeding prescribed
values



27
Section 320.14 (2)


Operation of motor vehicle while impaired by alcohol or a drug and
causing bodily harm



28
Section 320.14 (3)


Operation of motor vehicle while impaired by alcohol or a drug and
causing death



29
Section 320.15 (1)


Failure or refusal to comply with demand



30
Section 320.15 (2)


Causing accident resulting in bodily harm and failure or refusal
to comply with demand



31
Section 320.15 (3)


Causing accident resulting in death and failure or refusal to
comply with demand



32
Section 320.16 (1)

Failure to stop after accident


33
Section 320.16 (2)


Failure to stop after accident resulting in bodily harm



34
Section 320.16 (3)


Failure to stop after accident resulting in death



35
Section 320.17

Flight from peace officer


36
Section 320.18 (1)

Operation while prohibited





Contents
|



Division 1-4

|



Division 5

|



Division 6

|



Division 7-9

|



Division 10-18

|



Division 19-23

|



Division 24-25

|

Division 26-28 |


Division 29

|



Division 30-34

|



Division 35-36

|



Division 37-40

|



Division 40A-42

|



Division 43

|



Division 44-47





