




Miscellaneous Registrations Act, 1992
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 312






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"claim"
has the meaning given in a regulation made under this Act;



"financing change statement"

has the meaning prescribed under the

Personal Property Security Act

or this Act;



"financing statement"

means




(a)

[Repealed 2003-96-51.]




(b)

data authorized by a regulation prescribed under the

Personal Property Security Act

or this Act to be transmitted electronically, directly to the computer
data base of the registry to effect a registration;


"holder"
means




(a)

a person identified on a financing statement as having a claim, or




(b)

a person who has issued a notice or order defined as a claim by a
regulation made under this Act;


"registrar"
means the registrar of the personal property registry;


"registry"
means the personal property registry established under the

Personal Property Security Act

.






Registration of claims




2


A person may register a claim respecting personal property in the
registry by registering a financing statement in accordance with the
regulations made under the

Personal Property Security Act

and this Act.






Registration of multiple interests




3


A single registration may relate to more than one claim.






Application of
Personal Property Security Act




4

(1)


Sections 42 (5), 43 (1) to (3), (12) and (13), 44, 46 (1), 48 and 54
of the

Personal Property Security Act

apply to registrations under this Act.




(2)

For the purpose of applying the sections of the

Personal Property Security Act

referred to in subsection (1), a reference to "debtor" in the

Personal Property Security Act

must be read as a reference to a person who owns personal property
that is subject to a claim.






Registration has no effect




5

(1)


Registration under this Act does not affect the priority of an
interest in personal property unless another enactment of British
Columbia or Canada provides otherwise.




(2)

Registration under this Act of a financing statement in the registry
is not express, constructive or implied notice or knowledge of its
contents, or of the claim to which it relates, to any person unless
another enactment of British Columbia or Canada provides otherwise.






When does a registration have to be discharged?




6

(1)


If a claim that was registered under this Act ceases to exist, the
holder must discharge the registration within one month of the
claim ceasing to exist, by registering a form prescribed under the

Personal Property Security Act

or this Act.




(2)

If the registration relates to more than one claim, the holder must
partially discharge the registration by discharging that part of the
registration that relates to the claim that has ceased to exist within
one month of the claim ceasing to exist, by registering a form
prescribed under the

Personal Property Security Act

or this Act.




(3)

If the holder does not comply with subsection (1) or (2), a person
with an interest in the personal property against which the claim is
registered may require the holder to discharge the registration by
giving a written demand in a form prescribed under the

Personal Property Security Act

or this Act.




(4)

The demand may be given to the holder




(a)

in accordance with section 72 of the

Personal Property Security Act

, or




(b)

by registered mail addressed to the address of the holder as it
appears on the financing statement.




(5)

If the holder fails to discharge or partially discharge the
registration as required by subsection (1) or (2), a person making the
demand under subsection (3) may apply to a court having jurisdiction
for an order directing that the registration be discharged or
partially discharged.




(6)

No fee or expense may be charged and no amount may be accepted by the
holder for compliance with this section, unless the charge is agreed
to by the parties before the demand is made.






Removal of information from records of registry




7


The registrar may remove information from the records of the registry




(a)

when the registration is no longer effective,




(b)

on the receipt of a prescribed form discharging or partially
discharging the registration, and




(c)

on the receipt of a court order compelling the discharge or partial
discharge of a registration.






What limitations are there on the liability of the government?




8

(1)


The government is not liable either directly or vicariously for loss
or damage suffered by a person because of




(a)

verbal advice given by an agent or employee of the government
respecting




(i)

this Act, the

Personal Property Security Act

or a regulation made under either Act, or




(ii)

the operation of the registry


unless the person who brings the action proves that the agent or
employee was not acting in good faith, or




(b)

failure to register or to register correctly data authorized under a
regulation to be transmitted electronically, directly to the computer
data base of the registry to effect a registration.




(2)

If an action is brought against the government for the recovery of
loss or damage that results from the failure of the registrar to
register a claim submitted for registration, it is a defence to the
action that the failure to register was because




(a)

the applicant did not pay a prescribed fee, if any, for registration,




(b)

the registrar had refused to register due to circumstances referred to
in section 42 (5) of the

Personal Property Security Act

, or




(c)

the registrar had refused to register for a reason referred to in
section 43 (12) of the

Personal Property Security Act

.




(3)

Nothing in this section limits any defences that would be available to
the government in the absence of this section.






Power to make regulations




9

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

defining "claim";




(b)

respecting matters set out in section 76 of the

Personal Property Security Act

with the necessary changes so that they apply to this Act;




(c)

requiring a holder to give a prescribed person a copy of a
verification statement or a copy of a financing statement in a
prescribed manner and within a prescribed time;




(d)

applying regulations made under the

Personal Property Security Act

to this Act.




(3)

A regulation made under subsection (1) or (2) may be made in respect
of different classes of persons or transactions.




(4)

Nothing in this section affects the power to make regulations under
the

Personal Property Security Act

.




