







B.C. Reg. 370/2005


British Columbia Securities Commission



Deposited December 14, 2005

effective December 30, 2005





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Securities Act



National Instrument 44-101
Short Form Prospectus Distributions


[Last amended June 9, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 139/2023]



Part 1 — Definitions and Interpretation





Definitions




1.1


In this Instrument


"AIF"
has the same meaning as in NI 51-102 for a reporting issuer other than
an investment fund, and for an investment fund means an annual
information form as such term is used in NI 81-106;



"applicable CD rule"

means, for a reporting issuer other than an investment fund, NI 51-102
and, for an investment fund, NI 81-106;



"cash equivalent"

means an evidence of indebtedness that has a remaining term to
maturity of 365 days or less and that is issued, or fully and
unconditionally guaranteed as to principal and interest, by




(a)

the government of Canada or the government of a jurisdiction of
Canada,




(b)

the government of the United States of America, the government of one
of the states of the United States of America, the government of
another sovereign state or a permitted supranational agency, if, in
each case, the evidence of indebtedness has a designated rating, or




(c)

a Canadian financial institution, or other entity that is regulated as
a banking institution, loan corporation, trust company, or insurance
company or credit union by the government, or an agency of the
government, of the country under whose laws the entity is incorporated
or organized or a political subdivision of that country, if, in either
case, the Canadian financial institution or other entity has
outstanding short term debt securities that have received a designated
rating from any designated rating organization or its DRO affiliate;



"cash settled derivative"

means a derivative, the terms of which provide for settlement only by
means of cash or cash equivalent the amount of which is determinable
by reference to the underlying interest of the derivative;



"current AIF"

means,




(a)

if the issuer has filed an AIF for its most recently completed
financial year, that AIF, or




(b)

the issuer's AIF filed for the financial year immediately preceding
its most recently completed financial year if




(i)

the issuer has not filed an AIF for its most recently completed
financial year, and




(ii)

the issuer is not yet required under the applicable CD rule to have
filed its annual financial statements for its most recently completed
financial year;



"current annual financial statements"

means,




(a)

if the issuer has filed its comparative annual financial statements in
accordance with the applicable CD rule for its most recently completed
financial year, those financial statements together with the auditor's
report accompanying the financial statements and, if there has been a
change of auditors since the comparative period, an auditor's report
on the financial statements for the comparative period, or




(b)

the issuer's comparative annual financial statements filed for the
financial year immediately preceding its most recently completed
financial year, together with the auditor's report accompanying the
financial statements and, if there has been a change of auditors since
the comparative period, an auditor's report on the financial
statements for the comparative period if




(i)

the issuer has not filed its comparative annual financial statements
for its most recently completed financial year, and




(ii)

the issuer is not yet required under the applicable CD rule to have
filed its annual financial statements for its most recently completed
financial year;



"designated rating"

means the following:




(a)

for the purposes of paragraph 2.6 (1) (c), a credit rating from a
designated rating organization listed in this paragraph, from a DRO
affiliate of an organization listed in this paragraph, from a
designated rating organization that is a successor credit rating
organization of an organization listed in this paragraph or from a DRO
affiliate of such successor credit rating organization, that is at or
above one of the following corresponding rating categories or that is
at or above a category that replaces one of the following
corresponding rating categories:





Designated Rating Organization



Long

Term

Debt




Short

Term

Debt




Preferred

Shares




DBRS Limited
BBB
R-2
Pfd-3


Fitch Ratings, Inc.
BBB
F3
BBB


Kroll Bond Rating Agency, Inc.
BBB
K3
BBB


Moody's Canada, Inc.
Baa
Prime-3
Baa


S&P Global Ratings Canada
BBB
A-3
P-3






(b)

except as described in paragraph (a), a credit rating from a
designated rating organization listed in this paragraph, from a DRO
affiliate of an organization listed in this paragraph, from a
designated rating organization that is a successor credit rating
organization of an organization listed in this paragraph or from a DRO
affiliate of such successor credit rating organization, that is at or
above one of the following corresponding rating categories or that is
at or above a category that replaces one of the following
corresponding rating categories:





Designated Rating Organization



Long

Term

Debt




Short

Term

Debt




Preferred

Shares




DBRS Limited
BBB
R-2
Pfd-3


Fitch Ratings, Inc.
BBB
F3
BBB


Moody's Canada, Inc.
Baa
Prime-3
Baa


S&P Global Ratings Canada
BBB
A-3
P-3





"designated rating organization"

means,




(a)

if designated under securities legislation, any of




(i)

DBRS Limited, Fitch Ratings, Inc., Kroll Bond Rating Agency, Inc.,
Moody's Canada Inc. or S&P Global Ratings Canada, or




(ii)

a successor credit rating organization of a credit rating organization
listed in subparagraph (i), or




(b)

any other credit rating organization designated under securities
legislation;



"DRO affiliate"

has the same meaning as in section 1 of National Instrument 25-101
Designated Rating Organizations
;



"material change report"

means, for a reporting issuer other than an investment fund, a
completed Form 51-102F3 Material Change Report of NI 51-102, and for
an investment fund, a completed Form 51-102F3 adjusted as directed by
NI 81-106;


"MD&A"
has the same meaning as in NI 51-102 in relation to a reporting issuer
other than an investment fund, and in relation to an investment fund
means an annual or interim management report of fund performance as
defined in NI 81-106;


"NI 41-101"
means National Instrument 41-101 General Prospectus Requirements;



"permitted supranational agency"

means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the
International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development
Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the Caribbean Development Bank, the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the African
Development Bank and any person or company prescribed under paragraph
(g) of the definition of "foreign property" in subsection 206 (1) of
the ITA;



"reverse takeover acquiree"

has the same meaning as in section 1.1 of NI 51-102;


"SEDAR+"
has the same meaning as in National Instrument 13-103

System for Electronic Data Analysis and Retrieval + (SEDAR+)

;



"short form eligible exchange"

means each of the Toronto Stock Exchange, Tier 1 and Tier 2 of the TSX
Venture Exchange, Aequitas NEO Exchange Inc., and the Canadian
Securities Exchange;



"successor credit rating organization"

means, with respect to a credit rating organization, any credit rating
organization that succeeded to or otherwise acquired all or
substantially all of another credit rating organization's business in
Canada, whether through a restructuring transaction or otherwise, if
that business was, at any time, owned by the first-mentioned credit
rating organization;



"successor issuer"

means,




(a)

except for an issuer which, in the case where the restructuring
transaction involved a divestiture of a portion of a reporting
issuer's business, succeeded to or otherwise acquired less than
substantially all of the business divested, an issuer that meets any
of the following requirements:




(i)

it was a reverse takeover acquiree in a completed reverse takeover;




(ii)

it was formed as a result of a completed restructuring transaction;




(iii)

it participated in a restructuring transaction and its existence
continued following the completion of the restructuring transaction;
or




(b)

an issuer that issued securities to the securityholders of a second
issuer that was a reporting issuer, in a reorganization that did not
alter those securityholders' proportionate interest in the second
issuer or the second issuer's proportionate interest in its assets;



"underlying interest"

means, for a derivative, the security, commodity, financial
instrument, currency, interest rate, foreign exchange rate, economic
indicator, index, basket, agreement, benchmark or any other reference,
interest or variable, and, if applicable, the relationship between any
of the foregoing, from, to or on which the market price, value or any
payment obligation of the derivative is derived, referenced or based;
and



"U.S. credit supporter"

means a credit supporter that




(a)

is incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States of
America or any state or territory of the United States of America or
the District of Columbia,




(b)

either




(i)

has a class of securities registered under section 12 (b) or section
12 (g) of the 1934 Act, or




(ii)

is required to file reports under section 15 (d) of the 1934 Act,




(c)

has filed with the SEC all 1934 Act filings for a period of 12
calendar months immediately before the filing of the preliminary short
form prospectus,




(d)

is not registered or required to be registered as an investment
company under the
Investment Company Act
of 1940 of the United States of America, and




(e)

is not a commodity pool issuer as defined in National Instrument
71-101
The Multijurisdictional Disclosure System
.


[am. B.C. Regs. 369/2006, s. 2; 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, ss. 2 and 3;
382/2010, Sch. D, s. 2; 178/2013, Sch. C, s. 2; 179/2013, Sch. C, s.
2; 208/2015, Sch. B; 111/2018, Sch. D,
ss. 2 to 4; 139/2023, Sch. E, s. 2.]






Definitions in NI 41-101




1.1.1


Every term that is defined or interpreted in NI 41-101, the definition
or interpretation of which is not restricted to a specific portion of
NI 41-101, has, if used in this Instrument, the meaning ascribed to it
in NI 41-101, unless otherwise defined or interpreted in this
Instrument.

[en. B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, s. 4.]





References to information included in a document




1.2


References in this Instrument to information included in a document
refer to both information contained directly in the document and
information incorporated by reference in the document.






References to information to be included in a document




1.3


Provisions of this Instrument that require an issuer to include
information in a document require an issuer either to insert the
information directly in the document or to incorporate the information
in the document by reference.






Interpretation of "short form prospectus"




1.4


In this Instrument, other than in Parts 4 through 8 or unless
otherwise stated, a reference to a short form prospectus includes a
preliminary short form prospectus.






Repealed




1.5


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, s. 5.]




Part 2 — Qualification to File a Prospectus in the Form of a Short Form
Prospectus





Short form prospectus




2.1

(1)


An issuer shall not file a prospectus in the form of Form 44-101F1 of
this Instrument unless the issuer is qualified under any of
sections 2.2 through 2.6 to file a prospectus in the form of
a short form prospectus.




(2)

An issuer that is qualified under any of sections 2.2 through 2.6 to
file a prospectus in the form of a short form prospectus for a
distribution may file, for that distribution,




(a)

a preliminary prospectus, prepared and certified in the form of Form
44-101F1; and




(b)

a prospectus, prepared and certified in the form of Form 44-101F1.

[am. B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, s. 6.]





Basic qualification criteria




2.2


An issuer is qualified to file a prospectus in the form of a short
form prospectus for a distribution of any of its securities in the
local jurisdiction, if the following criteria are satisfied:




(a)

the issuer is required to transmit documents through SEDAR+;




(b)

the issuer is a reporting issuer in at least one jurisdiction of
Canada;




(c)

the issuer has filed with the securities regulatory authority in each
jurisdiction in which it is a reporting issuer all periodic and timely
disclosure documents that it is required to have filed in that
jurisdiction




(i)

under applicable securities legislation,




(ii)

pursuant to an order issued by the securities regulatory authority, or




(iii)

pursuant to an undertaking to the securities regulatory authority;




(d)

the issuer has, in at least one jurisdiction in which it is a
reporting issuer,




(i)

current annual financial statements, and




(ii)

a current AIF;




(e)

the issuer's equity securities are listed and posted for trading on a
short form eligible exchange and the issuer is not an issuer




(i)

whose operations have ceased, or




(ii)

whose principal asset is cash, cash equivalents, or its exchange
listing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 139/2023, Sch. E, s. 3.]





Alternative qualification criteria for issuers of designated rating
non-convertible securities




2.3

(1)


An issuer is qualified to file a prospectus in the form of a short
form prospectus for a distribution of non-convertible securities in
the local jurisdiction, if the following criteria are satisfied:




(a)

the issuer is required to transmit documents through SEDAR+;




(b)

the issuer is a reporting issuer in at least one jurisdiction of
Canada;




(c)

the issuer has filed with the securities regulatory authority in each
jurisdiction in which it is a reporting issuer all periodic and timely
disclosure documents that it is required to have filed in that
jurisdiction




(i)

under applicable securities legislation,




(ii)

pursuant to an order issued by the securities regulatory authority, or




(iii)

pursuant to an undertaking to the securities regulatory authority;




(d)

the issuer has, in at least one jurisdiction in which it is a
reporting issuer,




(i)

current annual financial statements, and




(ii)

a current AIF;




(e)

the securities to be distributed




(i)

have received a designated rating on a provisional basis,




(ii)

are not the subject of an announcement by a designated rating
organization or its DRO affiliate, of which the issuer is or ought
reasonably to be aware, that the designated rating given by the
organization may be down-graded to a rating category that would not be
a designated rating, and




(iii)

have not received a provisional or final rating lower than a
designated rating from any designated rating organization or its DRO
affiliate.




(2)

Paragraph (1) (e) does not apply to an issuer filing a short form
prospectus that is a base shelf prospectus under NI 44-102.


[am. B.C. Regs. 179/2013, Sch. C, s. 3; 139/2023, Sch. E, s. 4.]






Alternative qualification criteria for issuers of guaranteed
non-convertible debt securities, preferred shares and cash settled
derivatives




2.4

(1)


An issuer is qualified to file a prospectus in the form of a short
form prospectus for a distribution of non-convertible debt securities,
non-convertible preferred shares or non-convertible cash settled
derivatives in the local jurisdiction, if the following criteria are
satisfied:




(a)

a credit supporter has provided full and unconditional credit support
for the securities being distributed,




(b)

at least one of the following is true:




(i)

the credit supporter satisfies the criteria in paragraphs 2.2 (a),
(b), (c) and (d) if the word "issuer" is replaced with "credit
supporter" wherever it occurs;




(ii)

the credit supporter is a U.S. credit supporter and the issuer is
incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada or a jurisdiction
of Canada;




(c)

unless the credit supporter satisfies the criteria in paragraph 2.2
(e) if the word "issuer" is replaced with "credit supporter" wherever
it occurs, at the time the preliminary short form prospectus is filed




(i)

the credit supporter has outstanding non-convertible securities that




(A)

have received a designated rating,




(B)

have not been the subject of an announcement by a designated rating
organization or its DRO affiliate, of which the issuer is or ought
reasonably to be aware, that the designated rating given by the
organization may be down-graded to a rating category that would not be
a designated rating, and




(C)

have not received a rating lower than a designated rating from any
designated rating organization or its DRO affiliate, and




(ii)

the securities to be issued by the issuer




(A)

have received a designated rating on a provisional basis,




(B)

have not been the subject of an announcement by a designated rating
organization or its DRO affiliate, of which the issuer is or ought
reasonably to be aware, that the designated rating given by the
organization may be down-graded to a rating category that would not be
a designated rating, and




(C)

have not received a provisional or final rating lower than a
designated rating from any designated rating organization or its DRO
affiliate.




(2)

Subparagraph (1) (c) (ii) does not apply to an issuer filing a short
form prospectus that is a base shelf prospectus under NI 44-102.

[am. B.C. Reg. 179/2013, Sch. C, s. 4.]





Alternative qualification criteria for issuers of guaranteed
convertible debt securities or preferred shares




2.5


An issuer is qualified to file a prospectus in the form of a short
form prospectus for a distribution of convertible debt securities or
convertible preferred shares in the local jurisdiction, if the
following criteria are satisfied:




(a)

the debt securities or the preferred shares are convertible into
securities of a credit supporter that has provided full and
unconditional credit support for the securities being distributed;




(b)

the credit supporter satisfies the criteria in section 2.2 if the word
"issuer" is replaced with "credit supporter" wherever it occurs.






Alternative qualification criteria for issuers of asset-backed
securities




2.6

(1)


An issuer established in connection with a distribution of
asset-backed securities is qualified to file a prospectus in the form
of a short form prospectus for a distribution of asset-backed
securities in the local jurisdiction, if the following criteria are
satisfied:




(a)

the issuer is required to transmit documents through SEDAR+;




(b)

the issuer has, in at least one jurisdiction of Canada,




(i)

current annual financial statements, and




(ii)

a current AIF;




(c)

the asset-backed securities to be distributed




(i)

have received a designated rating on a provisional basis,




(ii)

have not been the subject of an announcement by a designated rating
organization or its DRO affiliate, of which the issuer is or ought
reasonably to be aware, that the designated rating given by the
organization may be down-graded to a rating category that would not be
a designated rating, and




(iii)

have not received a provisional or final rating lower than a
designated rating from any designated rating organization or its DRO
affiliate.




(2)

Paragraph (1) (c) does not apply to an issuer filing a short form
prospectus that is a base shelf prospectus under NI 44-102.


[am. B.C. Regs. 179/2013, Sch. C, s. 5; 139/2023, Sch. E, s. 5.]






Exemptions for new reporting issuers and successor issuers




2.7

(1)


Paragraphs 2.2 (d), 2.3 (1) (d) and 2.6 (1) (b) do not apply to an
issuer if




(a)

the issuer is not exempt from the requirement in the applicable CD
rule to file annual financial statements within a prescribed period
after its financial year end, but the issuer has not yet been required
under the applicable CD rule to file any annual financial statements,
and




(b)

unless the issuer is seeking qualification under section 2.6, the
issuer has filed and obtained a receipt for a final prospectus that
included the issuer's or each predecessor entity's comparative annual
financial statements for its most recently completed financial year or
the financial year immediately preceding its most recently completed
financial year, together with the auditor's report accompanying those
financial statements and, if there has been a change of auditors since
the comparative period, an auditor's report on the financial
statements for the comparative period.




(1.1)

Subparagraphs 2.2 (d) (ii), 2.3 (1) (d) (ii) and 2.6 (1) (b) (ii) do
not apply to an issuer if




(a)

the issuer has filed annual financial statements as required under the
applicable CD rule, and




(b)

unless the issuer is seeking qualification under section 2.6, the
issuer has filed and obtained a receipt for a final prospectus that
included the issuer's or each predecessor entity's comparative annual
financial statements for its most recently completed financial year or
the financial year immediately preceding its most recently completed
financial year, together with the auditor's report accompanying those
financial statements and, if there has been a change of auditors since
the comparative period, an auditor's report on the financial
statements for the comparative period.




(2)

Paragraphs 2.2 (d), 2.3 (1) (d) and 2.6 (1) (b) do not apply to a
successor issuer if




(a)

the successor issuer is not exempt from the requirement in the
applicable CD rule to file annual financial statements within a
prescribed period after its financial year end, but the successor
issuer has not yet, since the completion of the restructuring
transaction or the reorganization described in paragraph (b) of
the definition of "successor issuer", which resulted in the successor
issuer, been required under the applicable CD rule to file annual
financial statements, and




(b)

an information circular relating to the restructuring transaction or
the reorganization described in paragraph (b) of the definition of
"successor issuer", in which the successor issuer participated or
which resulted in the successor issuer was filed by the successor
issuer or an issuer that was a party to the restructuring transaction
or reorganization, and such information circular




(i)

complied with applicable securities legislation, and




(ii)

in the case of a restructuring transaction, included disclosure in
accordance with section 14.2 or 14.5 of Form 51-102F5 for the
successor issuer.




(3)

Paragraphs 2.2 (d), 2.3 (1) (d) and 2.6 (1) (b) do not apply to an
issuer if




(a)

the issuer is not exempt from the requirement in the applicable CD
rule to file annual financial statements within a prescribed period
after its financial year end, but the issuer has not yet, since the
completion of a qualifying transaction or reverse takeover (as both
terms are defined in the TSX Venture Exchange Corporate Finance
Manual, as amended from time to time) been required under the
applicable CD rule to file annual financial statements, and




(b)

a CPC filing statement as defined in the TSX Venture Exchange
Corporate Finance Manual as amended from time to time, or other filing
statement of the TSX Venture Exchange was filed by the issuer and,




(i)

in the case of a CPC filing statement, the statement




(A)

was filed in connection with a qualifying transaction, and




(B)

complied with the TSX Venture Exchange Corporate Finance Manual, as
amended from time to time, in respect of the qualifying transaction;
or




(ii)

in the case of a TSX Venture Exchange filing statement, other than a
CPC filing statement, the statement




(A)

was filed in connection with a reverse takeover, and




(B)

complied with TSX Venture Exchange Corporate Finance Manual, as
amended from time to time, in respect of the reverse takeover.


[am. B.C. Regs. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, s. 7; 178/2013, Sch. C, ss. 3
to 10.]






Notice of intention and transition




2.8

(1)


An issuer is not qualified to file a short form prospectus under this
Part unless it has filed a notice declaring its intention to be
qualified to file a short form prospectus at least 10 business days
prior to the issuer filing its first preliminary short form prospectus
after the notice




(a)

with its notice regulator, and




(b)

in substantially the form of Appendix A.




(2)

The notice under subsection (1) is effective until withdrawn.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1),
"notice regulator"
means, as determined on the date the notice is filed, the securities
regulatory authority or regulator of the jurisdiction of Canada




(a)

in which the issuer's head office is located, if the issuer is not an
investment fund and the issuer is a reporting issuer in that
jurisdiction,




(b)

in which the investment fund manager's head office is located, if the
issuer is an investment fund and the issuer is a reporting issuer in
that jurisdiction, or




(c)

with which the issuer has determined that it has the most significant
connection, if paragraphs (a) and (b) do not apply to the
issuer.




(4)

For the purposes of this section, if, on December 29, 2005, an issuer
had a current AIF under National Instrument 44-101
Short Form Prospectus Distributions
that was in force on December 29, 2005, the issuer is deemed
to have filed a notice on December 14, 2005 declaring its
intention to be qualified to file a short form prospectus.




(5)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 178/2013, Sch. C, s. 11.]




(6)

The 10 business day period referred to in subsection (1) does not
apply if




(a)

an issuer is relying on section 2.4 or 2.5 and the following
requirements are met:




(i)

the issuer satisfies section 2.4 or 2.5, as applicable, at the time of
filing its short form prospectus;




(ii)

the issuer files its notice of intention before or concurrently with
the filing of its preliminary short form prospectus; and




(iii)

the issuer's credit supporter




(A)

previously filed a notice of intention under subsection (1) which has
not been withdrawn; or




(B)

is deemed to have filed a notice of intention under subsection (4); or




(b)

an issuer is a successor issuer and the following requirements are
met:




(i)

the issuer satisfies




(A)

section 2.2, 2.3 or 2.6, and




(B)

subsection 2.7 (2);




(ii)

the issuer files its notice of intention before or concurrently with
the filing of its preliminary short form prospectus; and




(iii)

the issuer has acquired substantially all of its business from a
person or company that




(A)

previously filed a notice of intention under subsection (1) which has
not been withdrawn; or




(B)

is deemed to have filed a notice of intention under
subsection (4).

[am. B.C. Reg. 178/2013, Sch. C, ss. 11 and 12.]



Part 3 — Deemed Incorporation by Reference





Deemed incorporation by reference of filed documents




3.1


If an issuer does not incorporate by reference in its short form
prospectus a document required to be incorporated by reference under
section 11.1 or 12.1 of Form 44-101F1, the document is deemed for
purposes of securities legislation to be incorporated by reference in
the issuer's short form prospectus as of the date of the short form
prospectus to the extent not otherwise modified or superseded by a
statement contained in the short form prospectus or in any other
subsequently filed document that also is, or is deemed to be,
incorporated by reference in the short form prospectus.






Deemed incorporation by reference of subsequently filed documents




3.2


If an issuer does not incorporate by reference in its short form
prospectus a subsequently filed document required to be incorporated
by reference under section 11.2 or 12.1 of Form 44-101F1, the document
is deemed for purposes of securities legislation to be incorporated by
reference in the issuer's short form prospectus as of the date the
issuer filed the document to the extent not otherwise modified or
superseded by a statement contained in the short form prospectus or in
any other subsequently filed document that also is, or is deemed to
be, incorporated by reference in the short form prospectus.






Incorporation by reference




3.3


A document deemed by this Instrument to be incorporated by reference
in another document is deemed for purposes of securities legislation
to be incorporated by reference in the other document.




Part 4 — Filing Requirements for a Short Form Prospectus





Required documents for filing a preliminary short form prospectus




4.1

(1)


An issuer that files a preliminary short form prospectus shall




(a)

file the following with the preliminary short form prospectus:




(i)

Signed Copy
— a signed copy of the preliminary short form prospectus;




(ii)

Qualification Certificate
— a certificate, dated as of the date of the preliminary short form
prospectus, executed on behalf of the issuer by one of its executive
officers




(A)

specifying which of the qualification criteria set out in Part 2 the
issuer is relying on in order to be qualified to file a prospectus in
the form of a short form prospectus, and




(B)

certifying that




(I)

all of those qualification criteria have been satisfied, and




(II)

all of the material incorporated by reference in the preliminary short
form prospectus and not previously filed is being filed with the
preliminary short form prospectus;




(iii)

Material Incorporated by Reference
— copies of all material incorporated by reference in the preliminary
short form prospectus and not previously filed;




(iv)

Documents Affecting the Rights of Securityholders
— a copy of any document required to be filed under subsection 12.1
(1) of NI 51-102 or section 16.4 of NI 81-106, as applicable, that
relates to the securities being distributed, and that has not
previously been filed;




(iv.1)

Material Contracts
— a copy of any material contract required to be filed under section
12.2 of NI 51-102 or section 16.4 of NI 81-106 that has not previously
been filed;




(v)

Mining Reports
— if the issuer has a mineral project, the technical reports required
to be filed with a preliminary short form prospectus under NI 43-101;




(vi)

Reports and Valuations
— a copy of each report or valuation referred to in the preliminary
short form prospectus for which a consent is required to be filed
under section 10.1 of NI 41-101 and that has not previously been
filed, other than a technical report that




(A)

deals with a mineral project or oil and gas activities, and




(B)

is not otherwise required to be filed under subparagraph (v); and




(vii)

Marketing Materials
— a copy of any template version of the marketing materials required
to be filed under paragraph 7.6 (1) (e) of this Instrument or
paragraph 13.7 (1) (e) of NI 41-101 that has not previously been
filed; and




(b)

deliver to the regulator, concurrently with the filing of the
preliminary short form prospectus, the following:




(i)


Personal Information Form and Authorization to Collect, Use and
Disclose Personal Information

— a completed personal information form for




(A)

each director and executive officer of an issuer;




(B)

if the issuer is an investment fund, each director and executive
officer of the manager of the issuer;




(C)

each promoter of the issuer; and




(D)

if the promoter is not an individual, each director and executive
officer of the promoter;




(E) to (G)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 178/2013, Sch. C, s. 16.]




(ii)


Auditor's Comfort Letter Regarding Audited Financial Statements

— if a financial statement of an issuer or a business included in, or
incorporated by reference into, a preliminary short form prospectus is
accompanied by an unsigned auditor's report, a signed letter addressed
to the regulator from the auditor of the issuer or of the business, as
applicable, prepared in accordance with the form suggested for this
circumstance in the Handbook; and




(iii)

Marketing Materials
— a copy of any template version of the marketing materials required
to be delivered under paragraph 7.6 (4) (c) or 7.8 (2) (c) of this
Instrument or paragraph 13.7 (4) (c) or 13.12 (2) (c) of NI 41-101
that has not previously been delivered.




(2)

Despite subparagraph (1) (b) (i), an issuer is not required to deliver
to the regulator a personal information form for an individual if the
issuer, another issuer or, if the issuer is an investment fund, the
manager of the investment fund issuer or another investment fund
issuer, previously delivered a personal information form for the
individual and all of the following are satisfied:




(a)

the certificate and consent included in or attached to the personal
information form was executed by the individual within three years
preceding the date of filing of the preliminary short form prospectus;




(b)

the responses given by the individual to questions 6 through 10 of the
individual's personal information form are correct as at a date that
is within 30 days of the filing of the preliminary short form
prospectus;




(c)

if the personal information form was previously delivered to the
regulator by another issuer, the issuer delivers to the regulator,
concurrently with the filing of the preliminary short form prospectus,
a copy of the previously delivered personal information form, or
alternative information that is satisfactory to the regulator.




(3)

Until May 14, 2016, subparagraph (1) (b) (i) does not apply to an
issuer in respect of the delivery of a personal information form for
an individual if the issuer or, if the issuer is an investment fund,
the manager of the investment fund issuer, previously delivered to the
regulator a predecessor personal information form for the individual
and all of the following are satisfied:




(a)

the certificate and consent included in or attached to the predecessor
personal information form was executed by the individual within three
years preceding the date of filing of the preliminary short form
prospectus;




(b)

the responses given by the individual to questions 4 (B) and (C) and
questions 6 through 9 or, in the case of a TSX/TSXV personal
information form in effect after September 8, 2011, questions 6
through 10, of the individual's predecessor personal information form
are correct as at a date that is within 30 days of the filing of the
preliminary short form prospectus.


[am. B.C. Regs. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, s. 8; 178/2013, Sch. C, ss.
13 to 17; 197/2013, Sch. B, s. 2.]






Required documents for filing a short form prospectus




4.2


An issuer that files a short form prospectus shall




(a)

file the following with the short form prospectus:




(i)

Signed Copy
— a signed copy of the short form prospectus;




(ii)

Material Incorporated by Reference
— copies of all material incorporated by reference in the short form
prospectus and not previously filed;




(iii)

Documents Affecting the Rights of Securityholders
— a copy of any document described under subparagraph 4.1 (a) (iv)
that has not previously been filed;




(iii.1)

Material Contracts
— a copy of any material contract described under subparagraph 4.1 (a)
(iv.1) that has not previously been filed;




(iv)

Other Reports and Valuations
— a copy of any report or valuation referred to in the short form
prospectus, for which a consent is required to be filed under section
10.1 of NI 41-101 and that has not previously been filed, other than a
technical report that




(A)

deals with a mineral project or oil and gas activities of the issuer,
and




(B)

is not otherwise required to be filed under subparagraph 4.1 (a) (v)
or (vi);




(v)

Issuer's Submission to Jurisdiction
— a submission to jurisdiction and appointment of agent for service of
process of the issuer in the form set out in Appendix B of NI 41-101,
if an issuer is incorporated or organized in a foreign jurisdiction
and does not have an office in Canada;




(vi)

Non-Issuer's Submission to Jurisdiction
— a submission to jurisdiction and appointment of agent for service of
process of




(A)

each selling securityholder,




(A.1)

each director of the issuer, and




(B)

any other person or company that provides or signs a certificate under
Part 5 of NI 41-101 or other securities legislation, other than an
issuer,


in the form set out in Appendix C of NI 41-101, if the person or
company is incorporated or organized under a foreign jurisdiction and
does not have an office in Canada or is an individual who resides
outside of Canada;




(vii)

Expert's Consents
— the consents required to be filed under section 10.1 of NI 41-101;




(viii)

Credit Supporter's Consent
— the written consent of the credit supporter to the inclusion of its
financial statements in the short form prospectus, if financial
statements of a credit supporter are required under section 12.1 of
Form 44-101F1 to be included in a short form prospectus and a
certificate of the credit supporter is not required under section 5.12
of NI 41-101 to be included in the short form prospectus;




(ix)


Undertaking in Respect of Credit Supporter Disclosure

— an undertaking of the issuer to file the periodic and timely
disclosure of a credit supporter similar to the disclosure provided
under section 12.1 of Form 44-101F1, for so long as the securities
being distributed are issued and outstanding;




(x)


Undertaking to File Agreements, Contracts and Material Contracts

— if an agreement or contract referred to in subparagraph (iii)
or a material contract under subparagraph (iii.1) has not been
executed before the filing of the final short form prospectus but will
be executed on or before the completion of the distribution, the
issuer must file with the securities regulatory authority, no later
than the time of filing of the final short form prospectus, an
undertaking of the issuer to the securities regulatory authority to
file the agreement, contract or material contract promptly and in any
event no later than seven days after the execution of the agreement,
contract or material contract;




(x.1)

Undertaking to File Unexecuted Documents
— if a document referred to in subparagraph (iii) does not need to be
executed in order to become effective and has not become effective
before the filing of the final short form prospectus, but will become
effective on or before the completion of the distribution, the issuer
must file with the securities regulatory authority, no later than the
time of filing of the final short form prospectus, an undertaking of
the issuer to the securities regulatory authority to file the document
promptly and in any event no later than seven days after the document
becomes effective;




(xi)

Undertaking in Respect of Restricted Securities
— for distributions of non-voting securities an undertaking of the
issuer to give notice to holders of non-voting securities of a meeting
of securityholders if a notice of such meeting is given to its
registered holders of voting securities; and




(xii)

Marketing Materials
— a copy of any template version of the marketing materials required
to be filed under paragraph 7.6 (1) (e) or 7.6 (7) (a) of this
Instrument or paragraph 13.7 (1) (e), 13.7 (7) (a) or 13.8 (1) (e) of
NI 41-101 that has not previously been filed; and




(b)

deliver to the regulator, no later than the filing of the short form
prospectus,




(i)

a copy of the short form prospectus, blacklined to show changes from
the preliminary short form prospectus,




(ii)

if the issuer has made an application to list the securities being
distributed on an exchange in Canada, a copy of a communication in
writing from the exchange stating that the application for listing has
been made and has been accepted subject to the issuer meeting the
requirements for listing of the exchange,




(iii)

a copy of any template version of the marketing materials required to
be delivered under paragraph 7.6 (4) (c) or 7.8 (2) (c) of this
Instrument or paragraph 13.7 (4) (c) or 13.12 (2) (c) of NI 41-101
that has not previously been delivered,




(iv)

the evidence of financial ability required to be delivered under
section 8A.4 of NI 41-101 if it has not previously been delivered, and




(v)

the evidence of fair value required to be delivered under subsection
8A.2 (2) of NI 41-101 if it has not previously been delivered.


[am. B.C. Regs. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, ss. 9 and 10; 178/2013, Sch.
C, ss. 18 to 20; 197/2013, Sch. B, s. 3; 230/2015, Sch. C.]






Alternative consent




4.2.1

(1)


Despite subparagraph 4.2 (a) (vii), if the expert whose consent is
required is a "qualified person" as defined in NI 43-101, the issuer
is not required to file the consent of the qualified person if




(a)

the qualified person's consent is required in connection with a
technical report that was not required to be filed with the
preliminary short form prospectus,




(b)

the qualified person was employed by a person or company at the date
of signing the technical report,




(c)

the principal business of the person or company is providing
engineering or geoscientific services, and




(d)

the issuer files the consent of the person or company.




(2)

A consent filed under subsection (1) must be signed by an individual
who is an authorized signatory of the person or company and who falls
within paragraphs (a), (b), (d) and (e) of the definition of
"qualified person" in NI 43-101.

[en. B.C. Reg. 86/2011, s. (c).]





Review of unaudited financial statements




4.3

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), any unaudited financial statements, other
than pro forma financial statements, included in, or incorporated by
reference into, a short form prospectus must have been reviewed in
accordance with the relevant standards set out in the Handbook for a
review of financial statements by the person or company's auditor or a
public accountant's review of financial statements.




(2)

If NI 52-107 permits the financial statements of the person or company
in subsection (1) to be audited in accordance with




(a)

U.S. AICPA GAAS, the unaudited financial statements may be reviewed in
accordance with the review standards issued by the American Institute
of Certified Public Accountants,




(a.1)

U.S. PCAOB GAAS, the unaudited financial statements may be reviewed in
accordance with the review standards issued by the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States of America),




(b)

International Standards on Auditing, the unaudited financial
statements may be reviewed in accordance with International Standards
on Review Engagement issued by the International Auditing and
Assurance Standards Board, or




(c)

auditing standards that meet the foreign disclosure requirements of
the designated foreign jurisdiction to which the issuer is subject,
the unaudited financial statements




(i)

may be reviewed in accordance with review standards that meet the
foreign disclosure requirements of the designated foreign
jurisdiction, or




(ii)

do not have to be reviewed if




(A)

the designated foreign jurisdiction does not have review standards for
unaudited financial statements, and




(B)

the short form prospectus includes disclosure that the unaudited
financial statements have not been reviewed.


[en. B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, s. 11; am. B.C. Reg. 382/2010,
Sch. D, s. 3.]






Repealed




4.4


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, s. 12.]






Repealed




4.5


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, s. 13.]




Part 5


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, s. 14.]





Repealed




5.1-5.8


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, s. 14.]




Part 6


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, s. 15.]





Repealed




6.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, s. 15.]




Part 7 — Solicitations of Expressions of Interest





Definitions and interpretations




7.1

(1)


In this Part:



"bought deal agreement"

means a written agreement




(a)

under which one or more underwriters has agreed to purchase all
securities of an issuer that are to be offered in a distribution under
a short form prospectus on a firm commitment basis, other than
securities issuable on the exercise of an over-allotment option,




(b)

that does not have a market-out clause,




(c)

that, other than an over-allotment option, does not provide an option
for any party to increase the number of securities to be purchased,
and




(d)

that, other than what is agreed to under a confirmation clause that
complies with section 7.4, is not conditional on one or more
additional underwriters agreeing to purchase any of the securities
offered;



"comparables"

means information that compares an issuer to other issuers;



"confirmation clause"

means a provision in a bought deal agreement that provides that the
agreement is conditional on the lead underwriter confirming that one
or more additional underwriters has agreed to purchase certain of the
securities offered;



"market-out clause"

means a provision in an agreement which permits an underwriter to
terminate its commitment, or underwriters to terminate their
commitment, to purchase securities in the event that the securities
cannot be marketed profitably due to market conditions;



"U.S. cross-border offering"

means an offering of securities of an issuer being made
contemporaneously in the United States of America and Canada by way of
a prospectus filed with a securities regulatory authority in a
jurisdiction of Canada and a U.S. prospectus filed with the SEC;



"U.S. prospectus"

means a prospectus that has been prepared in accordance with the
disclosure and other requirements of U.S. federal securities law for
an offering of securities registered under the 1933 Act.




(2)

In this Part, for greater certainty, a reference to "provides"
includes showing a document to a person without allowing the person to
retain or make a copy of the document.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2013, Sch. B, s. 4.]





Solicitations of expressions of interest




7.2


Subject to subsection 7.4 (2), the prospectus requirement does not
apply to a solicitation of an expression of interest made before the
issuance of a receipt for a preliminary short form prospectus for
securities to be qualified for distribution under a short form
prospectus pursuant to this Instrument or for securities to be issued
or transferred pursuant to an over-allotment option that are qualified
for distribution under a short form prospectus pursuant to this
Instrument, if




(a)

before the solicitation,




(i)

the issuer has entered into a bought deal agreement;




(ii)

the bought deal agreement has fixed the terms of the distribution,
including, for greater certainty, the number and type of securities
and the price per security, and requires that the issuer file a
preliminary short form prospectus for the securities not more than
four business days after the date that the bought deal agreement was
entered into; and




(iii)

immediately upon entering into the bought deal agreement, the issuer
issued and filed a news release announcing the agreement,




(b)

the issuer files a preliminary short form prospectus for the
securities pursuant to this Instrument within four business days after
the date that the bought deal agreement was entered into,




(c)

upon issuance of a receipt for the preliminary short form prospectus,
a copy of the preliminary short form prospectus is sent to each person
or company that, in response to the solicitation, expressed an
interest in acquiring the securities, and




(d)

except for a bought deal agreement under paragraph (a) or a more
extended form of underwriting agreement referred to in subsection 7.3
(6), no agreement of purchase and sale for the securities is entered
into until the short form prospectus has been filed and a receipt has
been issued.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2013, Sch. B, s. 4.]





Amendment or termination of bought deal agreement




7.3

(1)


Except as provided in subsections (2) to (7), a party to a bought deal
agreement referred to in paragraph 7.2 (a) must not agree to modify
the terms of a distribution provided for under a bought deal
agreement.




(2)

The parties to a bought deal agreement referred to in paragraph 7.2
(a) may increase the number of securities to be purchased by an
underwriter or underwriters, if




(a)

the number of additional securities to be purchased does not exceed
100% of the total of the base offering contemplated by the original
agreement plus any securities that would be acquired upon the exercise
of an over-allotment option;




(b)

the type of securities to be purchased, and the price per security, is
the same as under the original agreement;




(c)

the issuer files a preliminary short form prospectus for the increased
number of securities in accordance with this Instrument within four
business days after the date that the original agreement was entered
into;




(d)

immediately upon agreeing to change the number of securities to be
purchased, the issuer issued and filed a news release announcing the
amendment;




(e)

no previous amendment has been made to the original agreement to
increase the number of securities to be purchased; and




(f)

the amended agreement is a bought deal agreement and the conditions in
section 7.2 are complied with.




(3)

The parties to a bought deal agreement referred to in paragraph 7.2
(a) may reduce the number of securities to be purchased, or the price
of the securities, if the amendment is made on or after the date which
is four business days after the date the original agreement was
entered into.




(4)

The parties to a bought deal agreement referred to in paragraph 7.2
(a) may provide for a different type of securities to be purchased by
the underwriter or underwriters, and a different price for the
securities, if




(a)

in the case where a different type of securities is to be substituted
in whole or in part for the securities that were the subject of the
original agreement, or offered in addition to the securities that were
the subject of the original agreement, the aggregate dollar amount of
the securities to be purchased by the underwriter or underwriters on a
firm commitment basis under the amended agreement is the same as the
aggregate dollar amount of the securities that were to be purchased by
the underwriter or underwriters on a firm commitment basis under the
original agreement or under an agreement amended in accordance with
subsection (2);




(b)

before a solicitation of an expression of interest in the different
type of securities and immediately upon entering into the amendment to
the original agreement, the issuer issued and filed a news release
announcing the amendment;




(c)

the issuer files a preliminary short form prospectus for the different
type of securities pursuant to this Instrument within four business
days after the date that the original agreement was entered into;




(d)

no previous amendment has been made to the original agreement to
provide for a different type of securities to be purchased; and




(e)

the amended agreement is a bought deal agreement and the conditions in
section 7.2 are complied with.




(5)

The parties to a bought deal agreement referred to in paragraph 7.2
(a) may add or remove an underwriter or adjust the number of
securities to be purchased by each underwriter on a proportionate
basis, if




(a)

the aggregate dollar amount of the securities to be purchased by the
underwriter or underwriters on a firm commitment basis under the
amended agreement is the same as the aggregate dollar amount of the
securities that were to be purchased by the underwriter or
underwriters on a firm commitment basis under the original agreement
or under an agreement amended in accordance with subsection (2);
and




(b)

the amended agreement is a bought deal agreement and the conditions in
section 7.2 are complied with.




(6)

The parties to a bought deal agreement referred to in paragraph 7.2
(a) may replace the bought deal agreement with a more extended form of
underwriting agreement that includes, without limitation, termination
rights, if the more extended form of underwriting agreement complies
with the terms and conditions that apply to a bought deal agreement
under this Part.




(7)

The parties to a bought deal agreement referred to in paragraph 7.2
(a) may agree to terminate the agreement if the parties decide not to
proceed with the distribution.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2013, Sch. B, s. 4.]





Confirmation clause




7.4

(1)


A bought deal agreement referred to in paragraph 7.2 (a) must not
contain a confirmation clause unless




(a)

under the bought deal agreement, the lead underwriter must provide the
issuer with a copy of the agreement that has been signed by the lead
underwriter;




(b)

the issuer signs the bought deal agreement on the same day that the
lead underwriter provides the agreement in accordance with
paragraph (a);




(c)

the lead underwriter has discussions with other investment dealers
regarding their participation in the distribution as additional
underwriters; and




(d)

on the business day after the day that the lead underwriter provides
the agreement in accordance with paragraph (a), the lead
underwriter provides notice in writing to the issuer that




(i)

the lead underwriter has confirmed the terms of the bought deal
agreement, or




(ii)

the lead underwriter will not be confirming the terms of the bought
deal agreement and the agreement has been terminated.




(2)

Where an issuer has entered into a bought deal agreement that has been
confirmed in accordance with subsection (1), the prospectus
requirement does not apply to a solicitation of an expression of
interest made before the issuance of a receipt for a preliminary short
form prospectus for securities to be qualified for distribution under
a short form prospectus pursuant to this Instrument, or for securities
to be issued or transferred pursuant to an over-allotment option that
are qualified for distribution under a short form prospectus pursuant
to this Instrument, if




(a)

before the solicitation,




(i)

the bought deal agreement has fixed the terms of the distribution,
including, for greater certainty, the number and type of securities
and the price per security, and requires that the issuer file a
preliminary short form prospectus for the securities not more than
four business days after the date that the lead underwriter provides
the notice in accordance with subparagraph (1) (d) (i); and




(ii)

immediately after the lead underwriter provides the notice in
accordance with subparagraph (1) (d) (i), the issuer issues the news
release referred to in subparagraph 7.2 (a) (iii),




(b)

the issuer files a preliminary short form prospectus for the
securities pursuant to this Instrument within four business days after
the date that the lead underwriter provides the notice in accordance
with subparagraph (1) (d) (i),




(c)

upon issuance of a receipt for the preliminary short form prospectus,
a copy of the preliminary short form prospectus is sent to each person
or company that, in response to the solicitation, expressed an
interest in acquiring the securities, and




(d)

except for a bought deal agreement under paragraph 7.2 (a), no
agreement of purchase and sale for the securities is entered into
until the short form prospectus has been filed and a receipt has been
issued.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2013, Sch. B, s. 4.]





Standard term sheets after announcement of bought deal but before a
receipt for a preliminary short form prospectus




7.5

(1)


An investment dealer that provides a standard term sheet to a
potential investor before the issuance of a receipt for a preliminary
short form prospectus is exempt from the prospectus requirement with
respect to providing the standard term sheet if




(a)

the standard term sheet complies with subsections (2) and (3);




(b)

the issuer is relying on the exemption in section 7.2 and has complied
with paragraph 7.2 (a);




(c)

other than contact information for the investment dealer or
underwriters, all information in the standard term sheet concerning
the issuer, the securities or the offering




(i)

is disclosed in, or derived from,




(A)

the news release described in subparagraph 7.2 (a) (iii), or




(B)

a document referred to in subsection 11.1 (1) of Form 44-101F1 that
the issuer has filed, or




(ii)

will be disclosed in, or derived from, the preliminary short form
prospectus that is subsequently filed; and




(d)

the preliminary short form prospectus will be filed in the local
jurisdiction.




(2)

A standard term sheet provided under subsection (1) must be dated and
include the following legend, or words to the same effect, on the
first page:



A preliminary short form prospectus containing important information
relating to the securities described in this document has not yet been
filed with the securities regulatory authorit[y/ies] in [each
of/certain of the provinces/provinces and territories of Canada].


Copies of the preliminary short form prospectus may be obtained from

[insert contact information for the investment dealer or
underwriters]

. There will not be any sale or any acceptance of an offer to buy the
securities until a receipt for the final short form prospectus has
been issued.


This document does not provide full disclosure of all material facts
relating to the securities offered. Investors should read the
preliminary short form prospectus, final short form prospectus and any
amendment, for disclosure of those facts, especially risk factors
relating to the securities offered, before making an investment
decision.




(3)

A standard term sheet provided under subsection (1) may contain only
the information referred to in subsection (2) and the information
referred to in subsection 13.5 (3) of NI 41-101.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2013, Sch. B, s. 4.]





Marketing materials after announcement of bought deal but before a
receipt for a preliminary short form prospectus




7.6

(1)


An investment dealer that provides marketing materials to a potential
investor before the issuance of a receipt for a preliminary short form
prospectus is exempt from the prospectus requirement with respect to
providing the marketing materials if




(a)

the marketing materials comply with subsections (2) to (8);




(b)

the issuer is relying on the exemption in section 7.2 and has complied
with paragraph 7.2 (a);




(c)

other than contact information for the investment dealer or
underwriters and any comparables, all information in the marketing
materials concerning the issuer, the securities or the offering




(i)

is disclosed in, or derived from,




(A)

the news release described in subparagraph 7.2 (a) (iii), or




(B)

a document referred to in subsection 11.1 (1) of Form 44-101F1 that
the issuer has filed, or




(ii)

will be disclosed in, or derived from, the preliminary short form
prospectus that is subsequently filed;




(d)

a template version of the marketing materials is approved in writing
by the issuer and the lead underwriter before the marketing materials
are provided;




(e)

a template version of the marketing materials is filed on or before
the day that the marketing materials are first provided;




(f)

the preliminary short form prospectus will be filed in the local
jurisdiction; and




(g)

upon issuance of a receipt for the preliminary short form prospectus,
a copy of the preliminary short form prospectus is sent to each person
or company that received the marketing materials and expressed an
interest in acquiring the securities.




(2)

If a template version of the marketing materials is approved in
writing by the issuer and lead underwriter under paragraph (1) (d) and
filed under paragraph (1) (e), an investment dealer may provide a
limited-use version of the marketing materials that




(a)

has a date that is different than the template version;




(b)

contains a cover page referring to the investment dealer or
underwriters or a particular investor or group of investors;




(c)

contains contact information for the investment dealer or
underwriters; or




(d)

has text in a format, including the type's font, colour or size, that
is different than the template version.




(3)

If a template version of the marketing materials is divided into
separate sections for separate subjects and is approved in writing by
the issuer and lead underwriter under paragraph (1) (d), and that
template version is filed under paragraph (1) (e), an investment
dealer may provide a limited-use version of the marketing materials
that includes only one or more of those separate sections.




(4)

The issuer may remove any comparables, and any disclosure relating to
those comparables, from the template version of the marketing
materials before filing it under paragraph (1) (e) or (7) (a) if




(a)

the comparables, and any disclosure relating to the comparables, are
in a separate section of the template version of the marketing
materials;




(b)

the template version of the marketing materials that is filed contains
a note advising that the comparables, and any disclosure relating to
the comparables, were removed in accordance with this subsection,
provided that the note appears immediately after where the removed
comparables and related disclosure would have been;




(c)

if the preliminary short form prospectus is subsequently filed in the
local jurisdiction, a complete template version of the marketing
materials is delivered to the securities regulatory authority; and




(d)

the complete template version of the marketing materials contains the
disclosure referred to in paragraph 13.7 (4) (d) of NI 41-101.




(5)

Marketing materials provided under subsection (1) must be dated and
include the following legend, or words to the same effect, on the
first page:



A preliminary short form prospectus containing important information
relating to the securities described in this document has not yet been
filed with the securities regulatory authorit[y/ies] in [each
of/certain of the provinces/provinces and territories of Canada]. A
copy of the preliminary short form prospectus is required to be
delivered to any investor that received this document and expressed an
interest in acquiring the securities.


There will not be any sale or any acceptance of an offer to buy the
securities until a receipt for the final short form prospectus has
been issued.


This document does not provide full disclosure of all material facts
relating to the securities offered. Investors should read the
preliminary short form prospectus, final short form prospectus and any
amendment, for disclosure of those facts, especially risk factors
relating to the securities offered, before making an investment
decision.




(6)

If marketing materials are provided before the issuance of a receipt
for a preliminary short form prospectus under subsection (1), the
issuer must include the template version of the marketing materials
filed under paragraph (1) (e) in its final short form prospectus or
incorporate by reference the template version of the marketing
materials filed under paragraph (1) (e) into its final short form
prospectus in the manner described in subsection 11.6 (1) of Form
44-101F1.




(7)

If the final short form prospectus or any amendment modifies a
statement of a material fact that appeared in marketing materials
provided before the issuance of a receipt for the preliminary short
form prospectus under subsection (1), the issuer must




(a)

prepare and file, at the time the issuer files the final short form
prospectus or any amendment, a revised template version of the
marketing materials that is blacklined to show the modified statement,
and




(b)

include in the final short form prospectus, or any amendment, the
disclosure required by subsection 11.6 (3) of Form 44-101F1.




(8)

A revised template version of the marketing materials filed under
subsection (7) must comply with section 13.8 of NI 41-101.




(9)

If marketing materials are provided before the issuance of a receipt
for a preliminary short form prospectus under subsection (1) but the
issuer does not comply with subsection (6), the marketing materials
are deemed for purposes of securities legislation to be incorporated
into the issuer's final short form prospectus as of the date of the
final short form prospectus to the extent not otherwise expressly
modified or superseded by a statement contained in the final short
form prospectus.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2013, Sch. B, s. 4.]





Road shows after announcement of bought deal but before a receipt for
a preliminary short form prospectus




7.7

(1)


An investment dealer that conducts a road show for potential investors
before the issuance of a receipt for a preliminary short form
prospectus is exempt from the prospectus requirement with respect to
the road show if




(a)

the road show complies with subsections (2) to (4);




(b)

the issuer is relying on the exemption in section 7.2 and has complied
with paragraph 7.2 (a); and




(c)

the preliminary short form prospectus will be filed in the local
jurisdiction.




(2)

Subject to section 7.8, an investment dealer must not provide
marketing materials to an investor attending a road show conducted
under subsection (1) unless the marketing materials are provided in
accordance with section 7.6.




(3)

If an investment dealer conducts a road show, the investment dealer
must establish and follow reasonable procedures to




(a)

ask any investor attending the road show in person, by telephone
conference call, on the internet or by other electronic means to
provide their name and contact information;




(b)

keep a record of any information provided by the investor; and




(c)

upon issuance of a receipt for the preliminary prospectus, provide the
investor with a copy of the preliminary prospectus and any amendment.




(4)

If an investment dealer permits an investor, other than an accredited
investor, to attend a road show, the investment dealer must commence
the road show with the oral reading of the following statement or a
statement to the same effect:



This presentation does not provide full disclosure of all material
facts relating to the securities offered. Investors should read the
preliminary prospectus, the final prospectus and any amendment for
disclosure of those facts, especially risk factors relating to the
securities offered, before making an investment decision.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2013, Sch. B, s. 4.]





Exception from filing and incorporation requirements for road shows
for certain U.S. cross-border offerings




7.8

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) to (4), if an investment dealer provides
marketing materials to a potential investor in connection with a road
show for a U.S. cross-border offering, the following provisions do not
apply to the template version of the marketing materials relating to
the road show:




(a)

paragraph 7.6 (1) (e);




(b)

subsections 7.6 (6) to (9);




(c)

paragraphs 11.6 (1) (b) and (c), paragraph 11.6 (3) (b) and subsection
11.6 (4) of Form 44-101F1.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply unless




(a)

the underwriters have a reasonable expectation that the securities
offered under the U.S. cross-border offering will be sold primarily in
the United States of America;




(b)

the issuer and the underwriters who sign the final short form
prospectus filed in the local jurisdiction provide a contractual right
containing the language set out in subsection 36A.1 (5) of Form
41-101F1, or words to the same effect, except that the language may
specify that the contractual right does not apply to any comparables
provided in accordance with subsection (3); and




(c)

if the prospectus is filed in the local jurisdiction, the template
version of the marketing materials relating to the road show is
delivered to the securities regulatory authority.




(3)

If the template version of the marketing materials relating to the
road show contains comparables, the template version of the marketing
materials must contain the disclosure referred to in paragraph 13.7
(4) (d) of NI 41-101.




(4)

For greater certainty, subsection (1) does not apply to marketing
materials other than the marketing materials provided in connection
with the road show.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2013, Sch. B, s. 4.]



Part 8 — Exemption





Exemption




8.1

(1)


The regulator or the securities regulatory authority may grant an
exemption from the provisions of this Instrument, in whole or in part,
subject to such conditions or restrictions as may be imposed in the
exemption.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), in Ontario only the regulator may grant such
an exemption.




(3)

An application made to the securities regulatory authority or
regulator for an exemption from the provisions of this Instrument
shall include a letter or memorandum describing the matters relating
to the exemption, and indicating why consideration should be given to
the granting of the exemption.




(4)

Except in Alberta and Ontario, an exemption referred to in subsection
(1) is granted under the statute referred to in Appendix B of National
Instrument 14-101
Definitions
opposite the name of the local jurisdiction.

[am. B.C. Reg. 111/2018, Sch. D, s. 5.]





Evidence of exemption




8.2

(1)


Subject to subsection (2) and without limiting the manner in which an
exemption under this Part may be evidenced, the granting under this
Part of an exemption, other than an exemption, in whole or in part,
from Part 2, may be evidenced by the issuance of a receipt for a
short form prospectus or an amendment to a short form prospectus.




(2)

The issuance of a receipt for a final short form prospectus or an
amendment to a final short form prospectus is not evidence that the
exemption has been granted unless




(a)

the person or company that sought the exemption sent to the regulator




(i)

the letter or memorandum referred to in subsection 8.1 (3), on or
before the date of the filing of the preliminary short form
prospectus, or




(ii)

the letter or memorandum referred to in subsection 8.1 (3) after the
date of the filing of the preliminary short form prospectus and
received a written acknowledgement from the regulator that the
exemption may be evidenced in the manner set out in
subsection (1), and




(b)

the regulator has not before, or concurrently with, the issuance of
the receipt sent notice to the person or company that sought the
exemption, that the exemption sought may not be evidenced in the
manner set out in subsection (1).

[am. B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, s. 17.]



Part 9 — Transition, Repeal and Effective Date





Applicable rules




9.1


A short form prospectus may, at the issuer's option be prepared in
accordance with securities legislation in effect at either the date of
issuance of a receipt for the preliminary short form prospectus or the
date of issuance of a receipt for the short form prospectus.






Repeal




9.2


National Instrument 44-101
Short Form Prospectus Distributions
and Form 44-101F3
Short Form Prospectus
, both of which came into force on December 31, 2000, are
repealed on December 30, 2005.






Effective date




9.3


This Instrument comes into force on December 30, 2005.




Appendix A



Notice Declaring Intention to Be Qualified under

National Instrument 44-101

Short Form Prospectus Distributions
("NI 44-101")



[date]



To: [the issuer's notice regulator (as defined in subsection 2.8 (2) of
NI 44-101), and any other securities regulatory authority or regulator
of a jurisdiction of Canada with whom the issuer may voluntarily file
this notice]


[name of issuer] (the "Issuer") intends to be qualified to file a short
form prospectus under NI 44-101. The Issuer acknowledges that it must
satisfy all applicable qualification criteria prior to filing a
preliminary short form prospectus. This notice does not evidence the
Issuer's intent to file a short form prospectus, to enter into any
particular financing or transaction or to become a reporting issuer in
any jurisdiction. This notice will remain in effect until withdrawn by
the Issuer.

[signature of Issuer]

[name and title of duly authorized signing officer of Issuer]



Appendices B to D


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 1, s. 18.]



Form 44-101F1

Short Form Prospectus

[am. B.C. Regs. 369/2006, ss. 2 to 4; 411/2007, App. B, s. 2; 59/2008,
App. C, Sch. 2; 382/2010, Sch. D, ss. 4 to 11; 78/2012, Sch. D, s. 1;
178/2013, Sch. C, ss. 23 to 45; 179/2013, Sch. C, s. 6; 197/2013, Sch.
B, ss. 5 and 6; 139/2023, Sch. E, ss. 6 and 7.]






Table of Contents





Item 1:


Cover Page Disclosure





1.1 Required Language






1.2 Preliminary Short Form Prospectus Disclosure







1.3 Disclosure Concerning Documents Incorporated by
Reference







1.4 Basic Disclosure about the Distribution






1.5 Name and Address of Issuer





1.6 Distribution






1.6.1 Offering price in currency other than Canadian dollar






1.7 Non-fixed Price Distributions





1.7.1 Pricing Disclosure





1.8 Reduced Price Distributions





1.9 Market for Securities





1.10 Underwriter(s)






1.11 Enforcement of Judgments Against Foreign Persons or
Companies






1.12 Restricted Securities





1.13 Earnings Coverage Ratios




Item 2:


Summary Description of Business





2.1 Summary Description of Business




Item 3:


Consolidated Capitalization





3.1 Consolidated Capitalization




Item 4:


Use of Proceeds





4.1 Proceeds





4.2 Principal Purposes — Generally





4.3 Principal Purposes — Indebtedness






4.4 Principal Purposes — Asset Acquisition







4.5 Principal Purposes — Insiders, etc.







4.6 Principal Purposes — Research and Development







4.7 Business Objectives and Milestones







4.8 Unallocated Funds in Trust or Escrow






4.9 Other Sources of Funding






4.10 Financing by Special Warrants, etc.





Item 5:


Plan of Distribution






5.1 Disclosure of Conditions to Underwriters' Obligations






5.2 Best Efforts Offering





5.3 Determination of Price





5.4 Stabilization






5.4.1 Underwriting Discounts — Interests of Management and
Others in Material Transactions






5.5 Minimum Distribution





5.5.1 Approvals





5.6 Reduced Price Distributions





5.7 Listing Application





5.8 Conditional Listing Approval





5.9 Constraints






5.10 Special Warrants Acquired by Underwriters or Agents





Item 6:


Earnings Coverage Ratios





6.1 Earnings Coverage Ratios




Item 7:


Description of Securities Being Distributed





7.1 Equity Securities





7.2 Debt Securities





7.3 Asset-backed Securities





7.4 Derivatives





7.5 Other Securities





7.6 Special Warrants, etc.





7.7 Restricted Securities





7.8 Modification of Terms





7.9 Ratings





7.10 Other Attributes




Item 7A:


Prior Sales





7A.1 Prior Sales





7A.2 Trading Price and Volume




Item 8:


Selling Securityholder





8.1 Selling Securityholder




Item 9:


Mineral Property





9.1 Mineral Property




Item 10:



Recently Completed and Probable Acquisitions






10.1 Application and Definitions





10.2 Significant Acquisitions




Item 10A:



Reverse Takeover and Probable Reverse Takeover







10A.1 Completed Reverse Takeover Disclosure







10A.2 Probable Reverse Takeover Disclosure





Item 11:


Documents Incorporated by Reference






11.1 Mandatory Incorporation by Reference







11.2 Mandatory Incorporation by Reference of Future
Documents







11.3 Issuers without a Current AIF or Current Annual
Financial Statements







11.4 Significant Acquisition for Which No Business
Acquisition Report Is Filed







11.5 Additional Disclosure for Issuers of Asset-Backed
Securities






11.6 Marketing Materials




Item 12:



Additional Disclosure for Issues of Guaranteed Securities






12.1 Credit Supporter Disclosure




Item 13:



Exemptions for Certain Issues of Guaranteed Securities






13.1 Definitions and Interpretation






13.2 Issuer Is Wholly-owned Subsidiary of Parent Credit
Supporter







13.3 Issuer Is Wholly-owned Subsidiary of, and One or More
Subsidiary Credit Supporters Controlled by, Parent Credit
Supporter







13.4 One or More Credit Supporters Controlled by Issuer





Item 14:



Relationship between Issuer or Selling Securityholder and
Underwriter







14.1 Relationship between Issuer or Selling Securityholder
and Underwriter





Item 15:


Interest of Experts





15.1 Names of Experts





15.2 Interest of Experts





15.3 Exemption




Item 16:


Promoters





16.1 Promoters




Item 17:


Risk Factors





17.1 Risk Factors




Item 18:


Other Material Facts





18.1 Other Material Facts




Item 19:



Exemptions from the Instrument or This Form







19.1 Exemptions from the Instrument or This Form





Item 20:



Statutory Rights of Withdrawal and Rescission






20.1 General





20.2 Non-fixed Price Offerings






20.3 Convertible, Exchangeable or Exercisable Securities





Item 21:


Certificates





21.1 Certificates





21.2 Issuer Certificate Form





21.3 Underwriter Certificate Form





21.4 Amendments





INSTRUCTIONS:



(1) The objective of the short form prospectus is to provide
information concerning the issuer that an investor needs in order to
make an informed investment decision. This Form sets out specific
disclosure requirements that are in addition to the general
requirement under securities legislation to provide full, true and
plain disclosure of all material facts relating to the securities to
be distributed. Certain rules of specific application impose
prospectus disclosure obligations in addition to those described in
this Form.




(2) Terms used and not defined in this Form that are defined or
interpreted in the Instrument or NI 41-101 bear that definition or
interpretation. Other definitions are set out in NI 14-101.




(3) In determining the degree of detail required, a standard of
materiality must be applied. Materiality is a matter of judgement in
the particular circumstance, and is determined in relation to an
item's significance to investors, analysts and other users of
information. An item of information, or an aggregate of items, is
considered material if it is probable that its omission or
misstatement would influence or change an investment decision with
respect to the issuer's securities. In determining whether information
is material, take into account both quantitative and qualitative
factors. The potential significance of items must be considered
individually rather than on a net basis, if the items have an
offsetting effect.




(4) Unless an item specifically requires disclosure only in the
preliminary short form prospectus, the disclosure requirements set out
in this Form apply to both the preliminary short form prospectus and
the short form prospectus. Details concerning the price and other
matters dependent upon or relating to price, such as the number of
securities being distributed, may be left out of the preliminary short
form prospectus, along with specifics concerning the plan of
distribution, to the extent that these matters have not been decided.




(5) Any information required in a short form prospectus may be
incorporated by reference in the short form prospectus, other than
confidential material change reports. Clearly identify in a short form
prospectus any document incorporated by reference. If an excerpt of a
document is incorporated by reference, clearly identify the excerpt in
the short form prospectus by caption and paragraph of the document.
Any material incorporated by reference in a short form prospectus is
required under sections 4.1 and 4.2 of the Instrument to be filed with
the short form prospectus unless it has been previously filed.




(6) The disclosure must be understandable to readers and presented in
an easy-to-read format. The presentation of information should comply
with the plain language principles listed in section 4.2 of Companion
Policy 44-101CP Short Form Prospectus Distributions. If technical
terms are required, clear and concise explanations should be included.




(7) No reference need be made to inapplicable items and, unless
otherwise required in this Form, negative answers to items may be
omitted.




(8) Where the term "issuer" is used, it may be necessary, in order to
meet the requirement for full, true and plain disclosure of all
material facts, to also include disclosure with respect to persons or
companies that the issuer is required, under the issuer's GAAP, to
consolidate, proportionately consolidate or account for using the
equity method (for example, including "subsidiaries" as that term is
used in Canadian GAAP applicable to publicly accountable enterprises).
If it is more likely than not that a person or company will become an
entity that the issuer will be required, under the issuer's GAAP, to
consolidate, proportionately consolidate or account for using the
equity method, it may be necessary to also include disclosure with
respect to the person or company.




(9) An issuer that is a special purpose entity may have to modify the
disclosure items to reflect the special purpose nature of its
business.




(10) If disclosure is required as of a specific date and there has
been a material change or change that is otherwise significant in the
required information subsequent to that date, present the information
as of the date of the change or a date subsequent to the change
instead.




(11) If the term "class" is used in any item to describe securities,
the term includes a series of a class.



(12) Disclosure in a preliminary short form prospectus or short form
prospectus must be consistent with NI 51-101 if the issuer is engaged in
oil and gas activities (as defined in NI 51-101).



(13) Forward-looking information included in a short form prospectus
must comply with section 4A.2 of NI 51-102 and must include the
disclosure described in section 4A.3 of NI 51-102. In addition to the
foregoing, FOFI or a financial outlook, each as defined in NI 51-102,
included in a short form prospectus must comply with Part 4B of NI
51-102. If the forward-looking information relates to an issuer or
other entity that is not a reporting issuer, section 4A.2, section
4A.3 and Part 4B of NI 51-102 apply as if the issuer or other entity
were a reporting issuer.




(14) If an issuer discloses financial information in a short form
prospectus in a currency other than the Canadian dollar, prominently
display the presentation currency.




(15) Except as otherwise required or permitted, include information in
a narrative form. The issuer may include graphs, photographs, maps,
artwork or other forms of illustration, if relevant to the business of
the issuer or the distribution and not misleading. Include descriptive
headings. Except for information that appears in a summary,
information required under more than one Item need not be repeated.




(16) Certain requirements in this Form make reference to requirements
in another instrument or form. Unless this Form states otherwise,
issuers must also follow the instructions or requirements in the other
instrument or form.




(17) Wherever this Form uses the word "subsidiary", the term includes
companies and other types of business organizations such as
partnerships, trusts, and other unincorporated business entities.




(18) Issuers must supplement any disclosure incorporated by reference
into a short form prospectus if that supplemented disclosure is
necessary to ensure that the short form prospectus provides full, true
and plain disclosure of all material facts related to the securities
to be distributed as required under Item 18 of this Form.




Item 1: Cover Page Disclosure



1.1 Required Language
— State in italics at the top of the cover page the following:


"No securities regulatory authority has expressed an opinion about these
securities and it is an offence to claim otherwise."



1.2 Preliminary Short Form Prospectus Disclosure
— Every preliminary short form prospectus shall have printed in red ink
and italics on the top of the cover page the following, with the
bracketed information completed:


"A copy of this preliminary short form prospectus has been filed with
the securities regulatory authority[ies] in [each of/certain of the
provinces/provinces and territories of Canada] but has not yet become
final for the purpose of the sale of securities. Information contained
in this preliminary short form prospectus may not be complete and may
have to be amended. The securities may not be sold until a receipt for
the short form prospectus is obtained from the securities regulatory
authority[ies]."



INSTRUCTIONS: Issuers shall complete the bracketed information by




(a) inserting the names of each jurisdiction in which the issuer
intends to offer securities under the short form prospectus;




(b) stating that the filing has been made in each of the provinces of
Canada or each of the provinces and territories of Canada; or




(c) identifying the filing jurisdictions by exception (i.e., every
province of Canada or every province and territory of Canada, except
[excluded jurisdiction]).





1.3 Disclosure Concerning Documents Incorporated by Reference

— State the following in italics on the cover page, with the first
sentence in boldface type and the bracketed information completed:


"Information has been incorporated by reference in this prospectus from
documents filed with securities commissions or similar authorities in
Canada. Copies of the documents incorporated herein by reference may be
obtained on request without charge from the secretary of the issuer at
[insert complete address and telephone number], and are also available
electronically at
www.sedarplus.com
."



1.4 Basic Disclosure about the Distribution
— State the following, immediately below the disclosure required under
sections 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3, with the bracketed information completed:


[PRELIMINARY] SHORT FORM PROSPECTUS

[INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING OR NEW ISSUE AND/OR SECONDARY OFFERING]

[Date]
[Name of Issuer]

[number and type of securities qualified for distribution under the
short form

prospectus, including any options or warrants, and the price per
security]



1.5 Name and Address of Issuer
— State the full corporate name of the issuer or, if the issuer is an
unincorporated entity, the full name under which the entity exists and
carries on business and the address(es) of the issuer's head and
registered office.



1.6 Distribution


(1) If the securities are being distributed for cash, provide the
information called for below, in substantially the following tabular
form or in a note to the table:









Price to public

(a)




Underwriting discounts

or commissions

(b)




Proceeds to issuer or

selling securityholders

(c)




Per security





Total







(2) Describe the terms of any over-allotment option or any option to
increase the size of the distribution before closing.


(2.1) If there may be an over-allocation position provide the following
disclosure:


A purchaser who acquires

[insert type of securities qualified for distribution under the
prospectus]

forming part of the underwriters' over-allocation position acquires
those securities under this short form prospectus, regardless of whether
the over-allocation position is ultimately filled through the exercise
of the over-allotment option or secondary market purchases.


(3) If the distribution of the securities is to be on a best efforts
basis and a minimum offering amount


(a) is required for the issuer to achieve one or more of the purposes of
the offering, provide totals for both the minimum and maximum offering
amount, or


(b) is not required for the issuer to achieve any of the purposes of the
offering, state the following in boldface type:



"There is no minimum amount of funds that must be raised under this
offering. This means that the issuer could complete this offering
after raising only a small proportion of the offering amount set out
above."



(3.1) If a minimum subscription amount is required from each subscriber,
provide details of the minimum subscription requirements in the table
required under subsection (1).


(4) If debt securities are distributed at a premium or a discount, state
in boldface type the effective yield if held to maturity.


(5) Disclose separately those securities that are underwritten, those
under option and those to be sold on a best efforts basis and, in the
case of a best efforts distribution, the latest date that the
distribution is to remain open.


(6) In column (b) of the table, disclose only commissions paid or
payable in cash by the issuer or selling securityholder and discounts
granted. Set out in a note to the table


(a) commissions or other consideration paid or payable by persons or
companies other than the issuer or selling securityholder;


(b) consideration other than discounts granted and cash paid or payable
by the issuer or selling securityholder, other than securities described
in section 1.10 below; and


(c) any finder's fees or similar required payment.


(7) If a security is being distributed for the account of a selling
securityholder, state the name of the selling securityholder and a
cross-reference to the applicable section in the short form prospectus
where further information about the selling securityholder is provided.
State the portion of expenses of the distribution to be borne by the
selling securityholder and, if none of the expenses of the distribution
are being borne by the selling securityholder, include a statement to
that effect and discuss the reasons why this is the case.


INSTRUCTIONS:



(1) Estimate amounts, if necessary. For non-fixed price distributions
that are being made on a best efforts basis, disclosure of the
information called for by the table may be set forth as a percentage
or a range of percentages and need not be set forth in tabular form.




(2) If debt securities are being distributed, also express the
information in the table as a percentage.





1.6.1 Offering price in currency other than Canadian dollar

— If the offering price of the securities being distributed is disclosed
in a currency other than the Canadian dollar, disclose in boldface type
the currency.



1.7 Non-fixed Price Distributions
— If the securities are being distributed at non-fixed prices, disclose


(a) the discount allowed or commission payable to the underwriter;


(b) any other compensation payable to the underwriter and, if
applicable, that the underwriter's compensation will be increased or
decreased by the amount by which the aggregate price paid for the
securities by the purchasers exceeds or is less than the gross proceeds
paid by the underwriter to the issuer or selling securityholder;


(c) that the securities to be distributed under the short form
prospectus will be distributed, as applicable, at


(i) prices determined by reference to the prevailing price of a
specified security in a specified market,


(ii) market prices prevailing at the time of sale, or

(iii) prices to be negotiated with purchasers;

(d) that prices may vary from purchaser to purchaser and during the
period of distribution;


(e) if the price of the securities is to be determined by reference to
the prevailing price of a specified security in a specified market, the
price of the specified security in the specified market at the latest
practicable date;


(f) if the price of the securities will be the market price prevailing
at the time of sale, the market price at the latest practicable date;
and


(g) the net proceeds or, if the distribution is to be made on a best
efforts basis, the minimum amount of net proceeds, if any, to be
received by the issuer or selling securityholder.



1.7.1 Pricing Disclosure
— If the offering price or the number of securities being distributed,
or an estimate of the range of the offering price or of the number of
securities being distributed, has been publicly disclosed in a
jurisdiction or a foreign jurisdiction as of the date of the preliminary
short form prospectus, include this information in the preliminary short
form prospectus.



1.8 Reduced Price Distributions
— If an underwriter wishes to be able to decrease the price at which
securities are distributed for cash from the initial offering price
disclosed in the short form prospectus, include in boldface type a
cross-reference to the section in the short form prospectus where
disclosure concerning the possible price decrease is provided.



1.9 Market for Securities


(1) Identify the exchange(s) and quotation system(s), if any, on which
securities of the issuer of the same class or series as the securities
being distributed are traded or quoted and the market price of those
securities as of the latest practicable date.


(2) Disclose any intention to stabilize the market and provide a
cross-reference to the section in the short form prospectus where
further information about market stabilization is provided.


(3) If no market for the securities being distributed under the short
form prospectus exists or is expected to exist upon completion of the
distribution, state the following in boldface type:


"There is no market through which the securities may be sold and
purchasers may not be able to resell securities purchased under the
short form prospectus. This may affect the pricing of the securities in
the secondary market, the transparency and availability of trading
prices, the liquidity of the securities, and the extent of issuer
regulation. See Risk Factors."



1.10 Underwriter(s)

(1) State the name of each underwriter.

(2) If applicable, comply with the requirements of NI 33-105 for front
page prospectus disclosure.


(3) If an underwriter has agreed to purchase all of the securities being
distributed at a specified price and the underwriter's obligations are
subject to conditions, state the following, with the bracketed
information completed:


"We, as principals, conditionally offer these securities, subject to
prior sale, if, as and when issued by [name of issuer] and accepted by
us in accordance with the conditions contained in the underwriting
agreement referred to under Plan of Distribution."


(4) If an underwriter has agreed to purchase a specified number or
principal amount of the securities at a specified price, state that the
securities are to be taken up by the underwriter, if at all, on or
before a date not later than 42 days after the date of the receipt for
the short form prospectus.


(5) If there is no underwriter involved in the distribution, provide a
statement in boldface type to the effect that no underwriter has been
involved in the preparation of the short form prospectus or performed
any review of the contents of the short form prospectus.

(6) Provide the following tabular information:




Underwriters' Position



Maximum size or

number of securities

available




Exercise period or

Acquisition date




Exercise price or

average acquisition

price




Over-allotment option





Compensation option






Any other option granted by issuer or insider of issuer to
underwriter







Total securities under option issuable to underwriter







Other compensation securities issuable to underwriter









INSTRUCTION: If the underwriter has been granted compensation
securities, state, in a footnote, whether the prospectus qualifies the
grant of all or part of the compensation securities and provide a
cross-reference to the applicable section in the prospectus where
further information about the compensation securities is provided.





1.11 Enforcement of Judgments Against Foreign Persons or Companies

— If the issuer, a director of the issuer, a selling securityholder, or
any other person or company that is signing or providing a certificate
under Part 5 of NI 41-101 or other securities legislation, or any person
or company for whom the issuer is required to file a consent under Part
10 of NI 41-101, is incorporated, continued, or otherwise organized
under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction or resides outside of Canada,
state the following on the cover page or under a separate heading
elsewhere in the prospectus, with the bracketed information completed:


"The [issuer, director of the issuer, selling securityholder, or other
person or company] is incorporated, continued or otherwise organized
under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction or resides outside of Canada.


[the person or company named below] has appointed the following agent(s)
for service of process:





Name of Person or Company


Name and Address of Agent









Purchasers are advised that it may not be possible for investors to
enforce judgments obtained in Canada against any person or company that
is incorporated, continued or otherwise organized under the laws of a
foreign jurisdiction or resides outside of Canada, even if the party has
appointed an agent for service of process.



1.12 Restricted Securities


(1) Describe the number and class or classes of restricted securities
being distributed using the appropriate restricted security terms in the
same type face and type size as the rest of the description.


(2) If the securities being distributed are restricted securities and
the holders of the securities do not have the right to participate in a
takeover bid made for other equity securities of the issuer, disclose
that fact.



1.13 Earnings Coverage Ratios
— If any of the earnings coverage ratios required to be disclosed under
section 6.1 is less than one-to-one, disclose this fact in boldface
type.




Item 2: Summary Description of Business




2.1 Summary of Description of Business
— Provide a brief summary on a consolidated basis of the business
carried on and intended to be carried on by the issuer.




Item 3: Consolidated Capitalization




3.1 Consolidated Capitalization
— Describe any material change in, and the effect of the material change
on, the share and loan capital of the issuer, on a consolidated basis,
since the date of the issuer's financial statements most recently filed
in accordance with the applicable CD rule, including any material change
that will result from the issuance of the securities being distributed
under the short form prospectus.



Item 4: Use of Proceeds



4.1 Proceeds


(1) State the estimated net proceeds to be received by the issuer or
selling securityholder or, in the case of a non-fixed price distribution
or a distribution to be made on a best efforts basis, the minimum
amount, if any, of net proceeds to be received by the issuer or selling
securityholder from the sale of the securities distributed.


(2) State the particulars of any provisions or arrangements made for
holding any part of the net proceeds of the distribution in trust or
escrow subject to the fulfillment of conditions.


(3) If the short form prospectus is used for a special warrant or
similar transaction, state the amount that has been received by the
issuer of the special warrants or similar securities on the sale of the
special warrants or similar securities.



4.2 Principal Purposes — Generally


(1) Describe in reasonable detail and, if appropriate, using tabular
form, each of the principal purposes, with approximate amounts, for
which the net proceeds will be used by the issuer.


(2) If the closing of the distribution is subject to a minimum offering
amount, provide disclosure of the use of proceeds for the minimum and
maximum offering amounts.


(3) If the following apply, disclose how the proceeds will be used by
the issuer, with reference to various potential thresholds of proceeds
raised, in the event that the issuer raises less than the maximum
offering amount:


(a) the closing of the distribution is not subject to a minimum offering
amount;


(b) the distribution is to be on a best efforts basis; and


(c) the issuer has significant short-term non-discretionary expenditures
including those for general corporate purposes, or significant
short-term capital or contractual commitments, and may not have other
readily accessible resources to satisfy those expenditures or
commitments.


(4) If the issuer is required to provide disclosure under subsection
(3), the issuer must discuss, in respect of each threshold, the impact,
if any, of raising each threshold amount on its liquidity, operations,
capital resources and solvency.



INSTRUCTIONS: If the issuer is required to disclose the use of
proceeds at various thresholds under subsections 4.2 (3) and (4),
include as an example a threshold that reflects the receipt of 15% of
the offering or less.




4.3 Principal Purposes — Indebtedness


(1) If more than 10% of the net proceeds will be used to reduce or
retire indebtedness and the indebtedness was incurred within the two
preceding years, describe the principal purposes for which the proceeds
of the indebtedness were used.


(2) If the creditor is an insider, associate or affiliate of the issuer,
identify the creditor and the nature of the relationship to the issuer
and disclose the outstanding amount owed.



4.4 Principal Purposes — Asset Acquisition


(1) If more than 10% of the net proceeds are to be used to acquire
assets, describe the assets.


(2) If known, disclose the particulars of the purchase price being paid
for or being allocated to the assets or categories of assets, including
intangible assets.


(3) If the vendor of the assets is an insider, associate or affiliate of
the issuer, identify the vendor and the nature of the relationship to
the issuer, and disclose the method used in determining the purchase
price.


(4) Describe the nature of the title to or interest in the assets to be
acquired by the issuer.


(5) If part of the consideration for the acquisition of the assets
consists of securities of the issuer, give brief particulars of the
class, number or amount, voting rights, if any, and other appropriate
information relating to the securities, including particulars of the
issuance of securities of the same class within the two preceding years.



4.5 Principal Purposes — Insiders, etc.
— If an insider, associate or affiliate of the issuer will receive more
than 10% of the net proceeds, identify the insider, associate or
affiliate and the nature of the relationship to the issuer, and disclose
the amount of net proceeds to be received.




4.6 Principal Purposes — Research and Development
— If more than 10% of the net proceeds from the distribution will be
used for research and development of products or services, describe



(a) the timing and stage of research and development programs that
management anticipates will be reached using such proceeds,


(b) the major components of the proposed programs that will be funded
using the proceeds from the distribution, including an estimate of
anticipated costs,


(c) if the issuer is conducting its own research and development, is
subcontracting out the research and development or is using a
combination of those methods, and


(d) the additional steps required to reach commercial production and an
estimate of costs and timing.



4.7 Business Objectives and Milestones


(1) State the business objectives that the issuer expects to accomplish
using the net proceeds of the distribution under section 4.1.


(2) Describe each significant event that must occur for the business
objectives described under subsection (1) to be accomplished and state
the specific time period in which each event is expected to occur and
the costs related to each event.



4.8 Unallocated Funds in Trust or Escrow


(1) Disclose that unallocated funds will be placed in a trust or escrow
account, invested or added to the working capital of the issuer.


(2) Give details of the arrangements made for, and the persons or
companies responsible for,


(a) the supervision of the trust or escrow account or the investment of
unallocated funds, and

(b) the investment policy to be followed.


4.9 Other Sources of Funding
— If any material amounts of other funds are to be used in conjunction
with the proceeds, state the amounts and sources of the other funds.



4.10 Financing by Special Warrants, etc.


(1) If the short form prospectus is used to qualify the distribution of
securities issued upon the exercise of special warrants or the exercise
of other securities acquired on a prospectus-exempt basis, describe the
principal purposes for which the proceeds of the prospectus-exempt
financing were used or are to be used.


(2) If all or a portion of the funds have been spent, explain how the
funds were spent.



Item 5: Plan of Distribution




5.1 Disclosure of Conditions to Underwriters' Obligations

— If securities are distributed by an underwriter that has agreed to
purchase all of the securities at a specified price and the
underwriter's obligations are subject to conditions,


(a) include a statement in substantially the following form, with the
bracketed information completed and with modifications necessary to
reflect the terms of the distribution:


"Under an agreement dated [insert date of agreement] between [insert
name of issuer or selling securityholder] and [insert name(s) of
underwriter(s)], as underwriter[s], [insert name of issuer or selling
securityholder] has agreed to sell and the underwriter[s] [has/have]
agreed to purchase on [insert closing date] the securities at a price of
[insert offering price], payable in cash to [insert name of issuer or
selling securityholder] against delivery. The obligations of the
underwriter[s] under the agreement may be terminated at [its/their]
discretion on the basis of [describe any "market out", "disaster out",
"material change out" or similar provision] and may also be terminated
upon the occurrence of certain stated events. The underwriter[s]
[is/are], however, obligated to take up and pay for all of the
securities if any of the securities are purchased under the agreement.",
and


(b) describe any other conditions and indicate any information known
that is relevant to whether such conditions will be satisfied.



5.2 Best Efforts Offering
— Outline briefly the plan of distribution of any securities being
distributed other than on the basis described in section 5.1.



5.3 Determination of Price
— Disclose the method by which the distribution price has been or will
be determined and, if estimates have been provided, explain the process
for determining the estimates.



5.4 Stabilization
— If the issuer, a selling securityholder or an underwriter knows or has
reason to believe that there is an intention to over-allot or that the
price of any security may be stabilized to facilitate the distribution
of the securities, describe the nature of these transactions, including
the anticipated size of any over-allocation position, and explain how
the transactions are expected to affect the price of the securities.




5.4.1 Underwriting Discounts — Interests of Management and Others in
Material Transactions

— Disclose any material underwriting discounts or commissions on the
sale of securities by the issuer if any of the persons or companies
listed under section 13.1 of Form 51-102F2 were or are to be an
underwriter or are associates, affiliates or partners of a person or
company that was or is to be an underwriter.



5.5 Minimum Distribution
— If securities are being distributed on a best efforts basis and
minimum funds are to be raised, state

(a) the minimum funds to be raised,

(b) that the issuer must appoint a registered dealer authorized to make
the distribution, a Canadian financial institution, or a lawyer who is a
practicing member in good standing with a law society of a jurisdiction
in which the securities are being distributed, or a notary in Québec, to
hold in trust all funds received from subscriptions until the minimum
amount of funds stipulated in paragraph (a) has been raised, and


(c) that if the minimum amount of funds is not raised within the
distribution period, the trustee must return the funds to the
subscribers without any deductions.



5.5.1 Approvals
— If the proceeds of the distribution will be used to substantially fund
a material undertaking that would constitute a material departure from
the business or operations of the issuer and the issuer has not obtained
all material licences, registrations and approvals necessary for the
stated principal use of proceeds, include a statement that


(a) the issuer must appoint a registered dealer authorized to make the
distribution, a Canadian financial institution, or a lawyer who is a
practicing member in good standing with a law society of a jurisdiction
in which the securities are being distributed, or a notary in Québec, to
hold in trust all funds received from subscriptions until all material
licenses, registrations and approvals necessary for the stated principal
use of proceeds have been obtained, and


(b) if all material licenses, registrations and approvals necessary for
the operation of the material undertaking have not been obtained within
90 days from the date of receipt of the final short form prospectus, the
trustee must return the funds to subscribers.



5.6 Reduced Price Distributions
— If the underwriter may decrease the offering price after the
underwriter has made a reasonable effort to sell all of the securities
at the initial offering price disclosed in the short form prospectus in
accordance with the procedures permitted by the Instrument, disclose
this fact and that the compensation realised by the underwriter will be
decreased by the amount that the aggregate price paid by purchasers for
the securities is less than the gross proceeds paid by the underwriter
to the issuer or selling securityholder.



5.7 Listing Application
— If application has been made to list or quote the securities being
distributed, include a statement in substantially the following form
with the bracketed information completed:


"The issuer has applied to [list/quote] the securities distributed under
this short form prospectus on [name of exchange or other market].
[Listing/Quotation] will be subject to the issuer fulfilling all the
listing requirements of [name of exchange or other market]."



5.8 Conditional Listing Approval
— If application has been made to list or quote the securities being
distributed and conditional listing approval has been received, include
a statement in substantially the following form, with the bracketed
information completed:


"[name of exchange or other market] has conditionally approved the
[listing/quotation] of these securities. [Listing/Quotation] is subject
to the [name of the issuer] fulfilling all of the requirements of the
[name of exchange or market] on or before [date], [including
distribution of these securities to a minimum number of public
securityholders.]"



5.9 Constraints
— If there are constraints imposed on the ownership of securities of the
issuer to ensure that the issuer has a required level of Canadian
ownership, describe the mechanism, if any, by which the level of
Canadian ownership of the securities of the issuer will be monitored and
maintained.




5.10 Special Warrants Acquired by Underwriters or Agents

— Disclose the number and dollar value of any special warrants acquired
by any underwriter or agent and the percentage of the distribution
represented by those special warrants.



Item 6: Earnings Coverage Ratios



6.1 Earnings Coverage Ratios


(1) If the securities being distributed are debt securities having a
term to maturity in excess of one year or are preferred shares, disclose
the following earnings coverage ratios adjusted in accordance with
subsection (2):


(a) the earnings coverage ratio based on the most recent 12-month period
included in the issuer's current annual financial statements included in
the short form prospectus,


(b) if there has been a change in year end and the issuer's most recent
financial year is less than nine months in length, the earnings coverage
calculation for its old financial year, and


(c) the earnings coverage ratio based on the 12-month period ended on
the last day of the most recently completed period for which an interim
financial report of the issuer has been included in the short form
prospectus.


(2) Adjust the ratios referred to in subsection (1) to reflect


(a) the issuance of the securities being distributed under the short
form prospectus, based on the price at which these securities are
expected to be distributed;


(b) in the case of a distribution of preferred shares,


(i) the issuance of all preferred shares since the date of the annual
financial statements or interim financial report, and


(ii) the repurchase, redemption or other retirement of all preferred
shares repurchased, redeemed, or otherwise retired since the date of the
annual financial statements or interim financial report and of all
preferred shares to be repurchased, redeemed, or otherwise retired from
the proceeds to be realized from the sale of securities under the short
form prospectus;


(c) the issuance of all financial liabilities, as defined in accordance
with the issuer's GAAP since the date of the annual financial statements
or interim financial report; and


(d) the repayment, redemption or other retirement of all financial
liabilities, as defined in accordance with the issuer's GAAP, since the
date of the annual financial statements or interim financial report and
all financial liabilities to be repaid or redeemed from the proceeds to
be realized from the sale of securities distributed under the short form
prospectus.


(e) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 382/2010, Sch. D, s. 6 (g).]


(3) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 382/2010, Sch. D, s. 6 (h).]


(4) If the earnings coverage ratio is less than one-to-one, disclose in
the short form prospectus the dollar amount of the numerator required to
achieve a ratio of one-to-one.


(5) If the short form prospectus includes a pro forma income statement,
calculate the pro forma earnings coverage ratios for the periods of the
pro forma income statement, and disclose them in the short form
prospectus.


INSTRUCTIONS:



(1) Cash flow coverage may be disclosed but only as a supplement to
earnings coverage and only if the method of calculation is fully
disclosed.




(2) Earnings coverage is calculated by dividing an entity's profit or
loss attributable to owners of the parent (the numerator) by its
borrowing costs and dividend obligations (the denominator).



(3) For the earnings coverage calculation



(a) the numerator should be calculated using consolidated profit or
loss attributable to owners of the parent before borrowing costs and
income taxes;




(b) imputed interest income from the proceeds of a distribution should
not be added to the numerator;



(c)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 382/2010, Sch. D, s. 7 (b) (ii).]



(d) for distributions of debt securities, the appropriate denominator
is borrowing costs, after giving effect to the new debt securities
issue and any retirement of obligations, plus the borrowing costs that
have been capitalized during the period;



(e) for distributions of preferred shares



(i) the appropriate denominator is dividends declared during the
period, together with undeclared dividends on cumulative preferred
shares, after giving effect to the new preferred share issue, plus the
issuer's annual borrowing cost requirements, including the borrowing
costs that have been capitalized during the period, less any
retirement of obligations, and




(ii) dividends should be grossed-up to a before-tax equivalent using
the issuer's effective income tax rate; and




(f) for distributions of both debt securities and preferred shares,
the appropriate denominator is the same as for a preferred share
issue, except that the denominator should also reflect the effect of
the debt securities being offered pursuant to the short form
prospectus.




(4) The denominator represents a pro forma calculation of the
aggregate of an issuer's borrowing cost obligations on all financial
liabilities and dividend obligations (including both dividends
declared and undeclared dividends on cumulative preferred shares) with
respect to all outstanding preferred shares, as adjusted to reflect




(a) the issuance of all financial liabilities and, in addition in the
case of an issuance of preferred shares, all preferred shares issued,
since the date of the annual financial statements or interim financial
report;




(b) the issuance of the securities that are to be distributed under
the short form prospectus, based on a reasonable estimate of the price
at which these securities will be distributed; and




(c) the repayment or redemption of all financial liabilities since the
date of the annual financial statements or interim financial report,
all financial liabilities to be repaid or redeemed from the proceeds
to be realized from the sale of securities under the short form
prospectus and, in addition, in the case of an issuance of preferred
shares, all preferred shares repaid or redeemed since the date of the
annual financial statements or interim financial report and all
preferred shares to be repaid or redeemed from the proceeds to be
realized from the sale of securities under the short form prospectus.



(d)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 382/2010, Sch. D, s. 7 (c) (v).]


(5)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 382/2010, Sch. D, s. 7 (d).]



(6) For debt securities, disclosure of earnings coverage shall include
language similar to the following, with the bracketed and bulleted
information completed:




"[Name of the issuer]'s borrowing cost requirements, after giving
effect to the issue of [the debt securities to be distributed under
the short form prospectus], amounted to $• for the 12 months ended •.
[Name of the issuer]'s profit or loss attributable to owners of the
parent before borrowing costs and income tax for the 12 months then
ended was $•, which is • times [name of the issuer]'s borrowing cost
requirements for this period."




(7) For preferred share issues, disclosure of earnings coverage shall
include language similar to the following, with the bracketed and
bulleted information completed:




"[Name of the issuer]'s dividend requirements on all of its preferred
shares, after giving effect to the issue of [the preferred shares to
be distributed under the short form prospectus], and adjusted to a
before-tax equivalent using an effective income tax rate of •%,
amounted to $• for the 12 months ended •. [Name of the issuer]'s
borrowing cost requirements for the 12 months then ended amounted to
$•. [Name of the issuer]'s profit or loss attributable to owners of
the parent before borrowing costs and income tax for the 12 months
ended • was $•, which is • times [name of the issuer]'s aggregate
dividend and borrowing cost requirements for this period."



(8)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. C, Sch. 2, s. 22 (g).]



(9) Other earnings coverage calculations may be included as
supplementary disclosure to the required earnings coverage
calculations outlined above as long as their derivation is disclosed
and they are not given greater prominence than the required earnings
coverage calculations.





Item 7: Description of Securities Being Distributed




7.1 Equity Securities
— If equity securities are being distributed, state the description or
the designation of the class of the equity securities and describe all
material attributes and characteristics that are not described elsewhere
in a document incorporated by reference in the short form prospectus
including, as applicable,

(a) dividend rights;
(b) voting rights;
(c) rights upon dissolution or winding up;
(d) pre-emptive rights;
(e) conversion or exchange rights;

(f) redemption, retraction, purchase for cancellation or surrender
provisions;

(g) sinking or purchase fund provisions;

(h) provisions permitting or restricting the issuance of additional
securities and any other material restrictions; and


(i) provisions requiring a securityholder to contribute additional
capital.



7.2 Debt Securities
— If debt securities are being distributed, describe all material
attributes and characteristics of the indebtedness and the security, if
any, for the debt that are not described elsewhere in a document
incorporated by reference in the short form prospectus, including


(a) provisions for interest rate, maturity and premium, if any;

(b) conversion or exchange rights;

(c) redemption, retraction, purchase for cancellation or surrender
provisions;

(d) sinking or purchase fund provisions;

(e) the nature and priority of any security for the debt securities,
briefly identifying the principal properties subject to lien or charge;


(f) provisions permitting or restricting the issuance of additional
securities, the incurring of additional indebtedness and other material
negative covenants including restrictions against payment of dividends
and restrictions against giving security on the assets of the issuer or
its subsidiaries and provisions as to the release or substitution of
assets securing the debt securities;


(g) the name of the trustee under any indenture relating to the debt
securities and the nature of any material relationship between the
trustee or any of its affiliates and the issuer or any of its
affiliates; and


(h) any financial arrangements between the issuer and any of its
affiliates or among its affiliates that could affect the security for
the indebtedness.



7.3 Asset-backed Securities


(1) This section applies only if any asset-backed securities are being
distributed.


(2) Describe the material attributes and characteristics of the
asset-backed securities, including


(a) the rate of interest or stipulated yield and any premium,


(b) the date for repayment of principal or return of capital and any
circumstances in which payments of principal or capital may be made
before such date, including any redemption or pre-payment obligations or
privileges of the issuer and any events that may trigger early
liquidation or amortization of the underlying pool of financial assets,


(c) provisions for the accumulation of cash flows to provide for the
repayment of principal or return of capital,


(d) provisions permitting or restricting the issuance of additional
securities and any other material negative covenants applicable to the
issuer,


(e) the nature, order and priority of the entitlements of holders of
asset-backed securities and any other entitled persons or companies to
receive cash flows generated from the underlying pool of financial
assets, and


(f) any events, covenants, standards or preconditions that may
reasonably be expected to affect the timing or amount of payments or
distributions to be made under the asset-backed securities, including
those that are dependent or based on the economic performance of the
underlying pool of financial assets.


(3) Provide financial disclosure that describes the underlying pool of
financial assets, for the period from the date as at which the following
information was presented in the issuer's current AIF to a date not more
than 90 days before the date of the issuance of a receipt for the
preliminary short form prospectus, of


(a) the composition of the pool as at the end of the period,


(b) profit and losses from the pool for the period presented on at least
an annual basis or such shorter period as is reasonable given the nature
of the underlying pool of assets,


(c) the payment, prepayment and collection experience of the pool for
the period on at least an annual basis or such shorter period as is
reasonable given the nature of the underlying pool of assets;

(d) servicing and other administrative fees, and

(e) any significant variances experienced in the matters referred to in
paragraphs (a) through (d).


(4) Describe the type of financial assets, the manner in which the
financial assets originated or will originate and, if applicable, the
mechanism and terms of the agreement governing the transfer of the
financial assets comprising the underlying pool to or through the
issuer, including the consideration paid for the financial assets.

(5) Describe any person or company who

(a) originated, sold or deposited a material portion of the financial
assets comprising the pool, or has agreed to do so,


(b) acts, or has agreed to act, as a trustee, custodian, bailee or agent
of the issuer or any holder of the asset-backed securities, or in a
similar capacity,


(c) administers or services a material portion of the financial assets
comprising the pool or provides administrative or managerial services to
the issuer, or has agreed to do so, on a conditional basis or otherwise,
if


(i) finding a replacement provider of the services at a cost comparable
to the cost of the current provider is not reasonably likely,


(ii) a replacement provider of the services is likely to achieve
materially worse results than the current provider,


(iii) the current provider of the services is likely to default in its
service obligations because of its current financial condition, or

(iv) the disclosure is otherwise material,

(d) provides a guarantee, alternative credit support or other credit
enhancement to support the obligations of the issuer under the
asset-backed securities or the performance of some or all of the
financial assets in the pool, or has agreed to do so, or


(e) lends to the issuer in order to facilitate the timely payment or
repayment of amounts payable under the asset-backed securities, or has
agreed to do so.


(6) Describe the general business activities and material
responsibilities under the asset-backed securities of a person or
company referred to in subsection (5).


(7) Describe the terms of any material relationships between


(a) any of the persons or companies referred to in subsection (5) or any
of their respective affiliates, and

(b) the issuer.

(8) Describe any provisions relating to termination of services or
responsibilities of any of the persons or companies referred to in
subsection (5) and the terms on which a replacement may be appointed.


(9) Describe any risk factors associated with the asset-backed
securities, including disclosure of material risks associated with
changes in interest rates or prepayment levels, and any circumstances
where payments on the asset-backed securities could be impaired or
disrupted as a result of any reasonably foreseeable event that may
delay, divert or disrupt the cash flows dedicated to service the
asset-backed securities.


INSTRUCTIONS:



(1) Present the information required under subsection (3) in a manner
that will enable a reader to easily determine whether, and the extent
to which, the events, covenants, standards and preconditions referred
to in paragraph (2) (f) have occurred, are being satisfied or may be
satisfied.




(2) If the information required under subsection (3) is not compiled
specifically from the underlying pool of financial assets, but is
compiled from a larger pool of the same assets from which the
securitized assets are randomly selected so that the performance of
the larger pool is representative of the performance of the pool of
securitized assets, then an issuer may comply with subsection (3) by
providing the financial disclosure required based on the larger pool
and disclosing that it has done so.




(3) Issuers are required to summarize contractual arrangements in
plain language and may not merely restate the text of the contracts
referred to. The use of diagrams to illustrate the roles of, and the
relationship among, the persons and companies referred to in
subsection (5) and the contractual arrangements underlying the
asset-backed securities is encouraged.




7.4 Derivatives
— If derivatives are being distributed, describe fully the material
attributes and characteristics of the derivatives, including


(a) the calculation of the value or payment obligations under the
derivatives;

(b) the exercise of the derivatives;

(c) settlements that are the result of the exercise of the derivatives;

(d) the underlying interest of the derivatives;

(e) the role of a calculation expert in connection with the derivatives;


(f) the role of any credit supporter of the derivatives; and


(g) the risk factors associated with the derivatives.



7.5 Other Securities
— If securities other than equity securities, debt securities,
asset-backed securities or derivatives are being distributed, describe
fully the material attributes and characteristics of those securities.



7.6 Special Warrants, etc.
— If the short form prospectus is used to qualify the distribution of
securities issued upon the exercise of special warrants or other
securities acquired on a prospectus-exempt basis, state the following:


"The issuer has granted to each holder of a special warrant a
contractual right of rescission of the prospectus-exempt transaction
under which the special warrant was initially acquired. The contractual
right of rescission provides that if a holder of a special warrant who
acquires another security of the issuer on exercise of the special
warrant as provided for in the prospectus is, or becomes, entitled under
the securities legislation of a jurisdiction to the remedy of rescission
because of the short form prospectus or an amendment to the short form
prospectus containing a misrepresentation,


(a) the holder is entitled to rescission of both the holder's exercise
of its special warrant and the private placement transaction under which
the special warrant was initially acquired,


(b) the holder is entitled in connection with the rescission to a full
refund of all consideration paid to the underwriter or issuer, as the
case may be, on the acquisition of the special warrant, and


(c) if the holder is a permitted assignee of the interest of the
original special warrant subscriber, the holder is entitled to exercise
the rights of rescission and refund as if the holder was the original
subscriber."



7.7 Restricted Securities


(1) If the issuer has outstanding, or proposes to distribute under a
short form prospectus restricted securities, subject securities or
securities that are, directly or indirectly, convertible into or
exercisable or exchangeable for restricted securities or subject
securities, provide a detailed description of


(a) the voting rights attached to the restricted securities that are the
subject of the distribution or that will result from the distribution,
either directly or following a conversion, exchange or exercise, and the
voting rights, if any, attached to the securities of any other class of
securities of the issuer that are the same as or greater than, on a per
security basis, those attached to the restricted securities,


(b) any significant provisions under applicable corporate and securities
law that do not apply to the holders of the restricted securities that
are the subject of the distribution or that will result from the
distribution, either directly or following a conversion, exchange or
exercise, but do apply to the holders of another class of equity
securities, and the extent of any rights provided in the constating
documents or otherwise for the protection of holders of the restricted
securities,


(c) any rights under applicable corporate law, in the constating
documents or otherwise, of holders of restricted securities that are the
subject of the distribution or that will result from the distribution,
either directly or following a conversion, exchange or exercise, to
attend, in person or by proxy, meetings of holders of equity securities
of the issuer and to speak at the meetings to the same extent that
holders of equity securities are entitled, and


(d) how the issuer complied with, or basis upon which it was exempt
from, the requirements of Part 12 of NI 41-101.


(2) If holders of restricted securities do not have all of the rights
referred to in subsection (1) the detailed description referred to in
that subsection must include, in boldface type, a statement of the
rights the holders do not have.


(3) If the issuer is required to include the disclosure referred to in
subsection (1), state the percentage of the aggregate voting rights
attached to the issuer's securities that will be represented by
restricted securities after effect has been given to the issuance of the
securities being offered.



7.8 Modification of Terms
— Describe provisions about the modification, amendment or variation of
any rights or other terms attached to the securities being distributed.
If the rights of holders of securities may be modified otherwise than in
accordance with the provisions attached to the securities or the
provisions of the governing statute relating to the securities, explain
briefly.



7.9 Ratings


(1) If the issuer has asked for and received a credit rating, or if the
issuer is aware that it has received any other kind of rating, including
a stability rating or a provisional rating, from one or more credit
rating organizations for the securities being distributed and the rating
or ratings continue in effect, disclose


(a) each rating received from a credit rating organization;


(b) for each rating disclosed under paragraph (a), the name of the
credit rating organization that has assigned the rating;


(c) a definition or description of the category in which each credit
rating organization rated the securities and the relative rank of each
rating within the organization's overall classification system;


(d) an explanation of what the rating addresses and what attributes, if
any, of the securities are not addressed by the rating;


(e) any factors or considerations identified by the credit rating
organization as giving rise to unusual risks associated with the
securities;


(f) a statement that a credit rating or a stability rating is not a
recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to
revision or withdrawal at any time by the credit rating organization;
and


(g) any announcement made by, or any proposed announcement known to the
issuer that is to be made by, a credit rating organization to the effect
that the organization is reviewing or intends to revise or withdraw a
rating previously assigned and required to be disclosed under this
section.


(2) If payments were, or reasonably will be, made to a credit rating
organization that provided a rating described in subsection (1), state
that fact and state whether any payments were made to the credit rating
organization in respect of any other service provided to the issuer by
the credit rating organization during the last two years.



INSTRUCTIONS: There may be factors relating to a security that are not
addressed by a credit rating organization when they give a rating. For
example, in the case of cash settled derivative instruments, factors
in addition to the creditworthiness of the issuer, such as the
continued subsistence of the underlying interest or the volatility of
the price, value or level of the underlying interest may be reflected
in the rating analysis. Rather than being addressed in the rating
itself, these factors may be described by a credit rating organization
by way of a superscript or other notation to a rating. Any such
attributes must be discussed in the disclosure under this Item.




A provisional rating received before the issuer's most recently
completed financial year is not required to be disclosed under this
Item.




7.10 Other Attributes


(1) If the rights attaching to the securities being distributed are
materially limited or qualified by the rights of any other class of
securities, or if any other class of securities ranks ahead of or
equally with the securities being distributed, include information about
the other securities that will enable investors to understand the rights
attaching to the securities being distributed.


(2) If securities of the class being distributed may be partially
redeemed or repurchased, state the manner of selecting the securities to
be redeemed or repurchased.



INSTRUCTION: This Item requires only a brief summary of the provisions
that are material from an investment standpoint. The provisions
attaching to the securities being distributed or any other class of
securities do not need to be set out in full. They may, in the
issuer's discretion, be attached as a schedule to the short form
prospectus.





Item 7A: Prior Sales




7A.1 Prior Sales
— For each class or series of securities of the issuer distributed under
the short form prospectus and for securities that are convertible or
exchangeable into those classes or series of securities, state, for the
12-month period before the date of the short form prospectus,


(a) the price at which the securities have been issued or are to be
issued by the issuer or sold by the selling securityholder,


(b) the number of securities issued or sold at that price, and


(c) the date on which the securities were issued or sold.



7A.2 Trading Price and Volume


(1) For the following securities of the issuer that are traded or quoted
on a Canadian marketplace, identify the marketplace and the price ranges
and volume traded or quoted on the Canadian marketplace on which the
greatest volume of trading or quotation for the securities generally
occurs:


(a) each class or series of securities of the issuer distributed under
the short form prospectus;


(b) securities of the issuer into which those classes or series of
securities are convertible or exchangeable.


(2) For the following securities of the issuer that are not traded or
quoted on a Canadian marketplace, but are traded or quoted on a foreign
marketplace, identify the foreign marketplace and the price ranges and
volume traded or quoted on the foreign marketplace on which the greatest
volume or quotation for the securities generally occurs:


(a) each class or series of securities of the issuer distributed under
the short form prospectus;


(b) securities of the issuer into which those classes or series of
securities are convertible or exchangeable.


(3) Provide the information required under subsections (1) and (2) on a
monthly basis for each month or, if applicable, partial months of the
12-month period before the date of the short form prospectus.




Item 8: Selling Securityholder




8.1 Selling Securityholder


(1) If any securities are being distributed for the account of a
securityholder, provide the following information for each
securityholder:

1. The name.

2. The number or amount of securities owned, controlled or directed of
the class being distributed.


3. The number or amount of securities of the class being distributed for
the account of the securityholder.


4. The number or amount of securities of the issuer of any class to be
owned, controlled or directed after the distribution, and the percentage
that number or amount represents of the total outstanding.


5. Whether the securities referred to in paragraph 2, 3 or 4 are owned
both of record and beneficially, of record only, or beneficially only.


(2) If securities are being distributed in connection with a
restructuring transaction, indicate, to the extent known, the holdings
of each person or company described in paragraph 1. of subsection (1)
that will exist after effect has been given to the transaction.


(3) If any of the securities being distributed are being distributed for
the account of a securityholder and those securities were purchased by
the selling securityholder within the two years preceding the date of
the short form prospectus, state the date the selling securityholder
acquired the securities and, if the securities were acquired in the 12
months preceding the date of the short form prospectus, the cost to the
securityholder in the aggregate and on an average cost-per-security
basis.


(4) If, to the knowledge of the issuer or the underwriter of the
securities being distributed, any selling securityholder is an associate
or affiliate of another person or company named as a principal holder of
voting securities in the issuer's information circular required to be
incorporated by reference under paragraph 7. of subsection
11.1 (1), disclose, to the extent known, the material facts of the
relationship, including any basis for influence over the issuer held by
the person or company other than the holding of voting securities of the
issuer.


(5) In addition to the above, include in a footnote to the table the
required calculation(s) on a fully-diluted basis.


(6) Describe any material change to the information required to be
included in the short form prospectus under subsection (1) to the date
of the short form prospectus.



INSTRUCTION: If a company, partnership, trust or other unincorporated
entity is a selling securityholder, disclose, to the extent known, the
name of each individual who, through ownership of or control or
direction over the securities of that company, trust or other
unincorporated entity, or membership in the partnership, as the case
may be, is a principal securityholder of that entity.




Item 9: Mineral Property



9.1 Mineral Property
— If a material part of the proceeds of the distribution is to be
expended on a particular mineral property and if the current AIF does
not contain the disclosure required under section 5.4 of Form 51-102F2
for the property or that disclosure is inadequate or incorrect due to
changes, disclose the information required under section 5.4 of Form
51-102F2.




Item 10: Recently Completed and Probable Acquisitions




10.1 Application and Definitions
— This Item does not apply to a completed or proposed transaction by the
issuer that was or will be accounted for as a reverse takeover or a
transaction that is a proposed reverse takeover that has progressed to a
state where a reasonable person would believe that the likelihood of the
reverse takeover being completed is high.



10.2 Significant Acquisitions

(1) Describe any acquisition

(a) that the issuer has completed within 75 days prior to the date of
the short form prospectus;


(b) that is a significant acquisition for the purposes of Part 8 of NI
51-102; and


(c) for which the issuer has not yet filed a business acquisition report
under NI 51-102.


(2) Describe any proposed acquisition by an issuer that


(a) has progressed to a state where a reasonable person would believe
that the likelihood of the issuer completing the acquisition is high;
and


(b) would be a significant acquisition for the purposes of Part 8 of NI
51-102 if completed as of the date of the short form prospectus.


(3) If disclosure about an acquisition or proposed acquisition is
required under subsection (1) or (2), include financial statements of or
other information about the acquisition or proposed acquisition if the
inclusion of the financial statements is necessary for the short form
prospectus to contain full, true and plain disclosure of all the
material facts relating to the securities being distributed.


(4) The requirement to include financial statements or other information
under subsection (3) must be satisfied by including


(a) the financial statements or other information that will be required
to be included in, or incorporated by reference into, a business
acquisition report filed under Part 8 of NI 51-102, or


(b) satisfactory alternative financial statements or other information.



INSTRUCTION: For the description of the acquisition or proposed
acquisition, include the information required by sections 2.1 through
2.6 of Form 51-102F4. For a proposed acquisition, modify this
information as necessary to convey that the acquisition is not yet
completed.





Item 10A: Reverse Takeover and Probable Reverse Takeover




10A.1 Completed Reverse Takeover Disclosure
— If the issuer has completed a reverse takeover since the end of the
financial year in respect of which the issuer's current AIF is
incorporated by reference into the short form prospectus under paragraph
1. of subsection 11.1 (1), provide disclosure about the reverse takeover
acquirer by complying with the following:


1. If the reverse takeover acquirer satisfies the criteria set out in
paragraphs 2.2 (a), (b), (c), and (d) of the Instrument, incorporate by
reference into the short form prospectus all documents that would be
required to be incorporated by reference under Item 11 if the reverse
takeover acquirer were the issuer of the securities.


2. If paragraph 1 does not apply to the reverse takeover acquirer,
include in the short form prospectus the same disclosure about the
reverse takeover acquirer that would be required to be contained in Form
41-101F1 if the reverse takeover acquirer were the issuer of the
securities being distributed and the reverse takeover acquirer were
distributing those securities by way of the short form prospectus.



10A.2 Probable Reverse Takeover Disclosure
— If the issuer is involved in a proposed reverse takeover that has
progressed to a state where a reasonable person would believe that the
likelihood of the reverse takeover being completed is high, provide
disclosure about the reverse takeover acquirer by complying with the
following:


1. If the reverse takeover acquirer satisfies the criteria set out in
paragraphs 2.2 (a), (b), (c), and (d) of the Instrument, incorporate by
reference into the short form prospectus all documents that would be
required to be incorporated by reference under Item 11 if the reverse
takeover acquirer were the issuer of the securities.


2. If paragraph 1 does not apply to the reverse takeover acquirer,
include in the short form prospectus the same disclosure about the
reverse takeover acquirer that would be required to be contained in Form
41-101F1, if the reverse takeover acquirer were the issuer of the
securities being distributed and the reverse takeover acquirer were
distributing those securities by way of the short form prospectus.



Item 11: Documents Incorporated by Reference



11.1 Mandatory Incorporation by Reference


(1) In addition to any other document that an issuer may choose to
incorporate by reference, specifically incorporate by reference in the
short form prospectus, by means of a statement in the short form
prospectus to that effect, the documents set forth below:

1. The issuer's current AIF, if it has one.

2. The issuer's current annual financial statements, if any, and related
MD&A.


3. The issuer's interim financial report most recently filed or required
to have been filed under the applicable CD rule in respect of an interim
period, if any, subsequent to the financial year in respect of which the
issuer has filed its current annual financial statements or has included
annual financial statements in the short form prospectus, and the
related interim MD&A.


4. If, before the short form prospectus is filed, historical financial
information about the issuer for a financial period more recent than the
period for which financial statements are required under paragraphs 2
and 3 is publicly disseminated by, or on behalf of, the issuer through
news release or otherwise, the content of the news release or public
communication.


5. Any material change report, except a confidential material change
report, filed under Part 7 of NI 51-102 or Part 11 of NI 81-106 since
the end of the financial year in respect of which the issuer's current
AIF is filed.


6. Any business acquisition report filed by the issuer under Part 8 of
NI 51-102 for acquisitions completed since the beginning of the
financial year in respect of which the issuer's current AIF is filed,
unless the issuer


(a) incorporated the BAR by reference into its current AIF, or


(b) incorporated at least 9 months of the acquired business or related
businesses operations into the issuer's current annual financial
statements.


7. Any information circular filed by the issuer under Part 9 of NI
51-102 or Part 12 of NI 81-106 since the beginning of the financial year
in respect of which the issuer's current AIF is filed, other than an
information circular prepared in connection with an annual general
meeting if the issuer has filed and incorporated by reference an
information circular for a subsequent annual general meeting.


8. The most recent Form 51-101F1, Form 51-101F2 and Form 51-101F3, filed
by an SEC issuer, unless


(a) the issuer's current AIF is in the form of Form 51-102F2; or


(b) the issuer is otherwise exempted from the requirements of NI 51-101.


9. Any other disclosure document which the issuer has filed pursuant to
an undertaking to a provincial and territorial securities regulatory
authority since the beginning of the financial year in respect of which
the issuer's current AIF is filed.


10. Any other disclosure document of the type listed in paragraphs 1
through 8 that the issuer has filed pursuant to an exemption from any
requirement under securities legislation since the beginning of the
financial year in respect of which the issuer's current AIF is filed.


(2) In the statement incorporating the documents listed in subsection
(1) by reference in a short form prospectus, clarify that applicable
portions of the documents are not incorporated by reference to the
extent their contents are modified or superseded by a statement
contained in the short form prospectus or in any other subsequently
filed document that is also incorporated by reference in the short form
prospectus.


(3) Despite paragraph 7 of subsection (1), an issuer may exclude from
its short form prospectus a report, valuation, statement or opinion of a
person or company contained in an information circular prepared in
connection with a special meeting of securityholders of the issuer, and
any references therein, if


(a) the report is not an auditor's report in respect of financial
statements of a person or company; and


(b) the report, valuation, statement or opinion was prepared in respect
of a specific transaction contemplated in the information circular,
unrelated to the distribution of securities under the short form
prospectus, and that transaction has been abandoned or completed.


INSTRUCTIONS:



(1) Paragraph 4 of subsection (1) requires issuers to incorporate only
the news release or other public communication through which more
recent financial information is released to the public. However, if
the financial statements from which the information in the news
release has been derived have been filed, then the financial
statements must be incorporated by reference.




(2) Issuers must provide a list of the material change reports and
business acquisition reports required under paragraphs 5 and 6 of
subsection (1), giving the date of filing and briefly describing the
material change or acquisition, as the case may be, in respect of
which the report was filed.




(3) Any material incorporated by reference in a short form prospectus
is required under sections 4.1 and 4.2 of the Instrument to be filed
with the short form prospectus unless it has been previously filed.





11.2 Mandatory Incorporation by Reference of Future Documents

— State that any documents, of the type described in section 11.1, if
filed by the issuer after the date of the short form prospectus and
before the termination of the distribution, are deemed to be
incorporated by reference in the short form prospectus.




11.3 Issuers without a Current AIF or Current Annual Financial
Statements



(1) If the issuer does not have a current AIF or current annual
financial statements and is relying on the exemption in subsection
2.7 (1) of the Instrument, include the disclosure, including
financial statements and related MD&A, that would otherwise have
been required to have been included in a current AIF and current annual
financial statements and related MD&A under section 11.1.


(2) If the issuer does not have a current AIF or current annual
financial statements and is relying on the exemption in subsection 2.7
(2) or (3) of the Instrument, include the disclosure, including
financial statements, provided in accordance with


(a) section 14.2 or 14.5 of Form 51-102F5 in the information circular
referred to in paragraph 2.7 (2) (b) of the Instrument; or


(b) the policies and requirements of the TSX Venture Exchange for
disclosure of a qualifying transaction in a CPC filing statement or a
reverse takeover in a filing statement referred to in paragraph 2.7 (3)
(b) of the Instrument.


INSTRUCTIONS:



(1) If an issuer is required to include disclosure under subsection
11.3 (2), it must include the historical financial statements of any
entity that was a party to the restructuring transaction and any other
information contained in the information circular, CPC filing
statement or other filing statement of the TSX Venture Exchange that
was used to construct financial statements for the issuer.




(2) The disclosure referenced in instruction (1) must be presented in
a way that supplements, but does not replace, the disclosure required
to be made for a transaction that constitutes a significant
acquisition for the issuer or a reverse takeover in which the issuer
was involved.





11.4 Significant Acquisition for Which No Business Acquisition Report
is Filed


(1) If the issuer has,

(a) since the beginning of the most recently completed financial year in
respect of which annual financial statements are included in the short
form prospectus; and


(b) more than 75 days prior to the date of filing the preliminary short
form prospectus,


completed a transaction that would have been a significant acquisition
for the purposes of Part 8 of NI 51-102 if the issuer had been a
reporting issuer at the time of the transaction, and the issuer has not
filed a business acquisition report in respect of the transaction,
include the financial statements and other information in respect of the
transaction that is prescribed by Form 51-102F4.


(2) If the issuer was exempt from the requirement to file a business
acquisition report in respect of a transaction because the disclosure
that would normally be included in a business acquisition report was
included in another document, include that disclosure in the short form
prospectus.



INSTRUCTION: Disclosure required by section 11.3 or 11.4 to be
included in the short form prospectus may be incorporated by reference
from another document or included directly in the short form
prospectus.





11.5 Additional Disclosure for Issuers of Asset-Backed Securities



If the issuer has not filed or has not been required to file interim
financial statements and related MD&A in respect of an interim
period subsequent to the financial year in respect of which it has
included annual financial statements in the short form prospectus
because it is not a reporting issuer and is qualifying to file the short
form prospectus under section 2.6 of the Instrument, include the interim
financial statements and related MD&A that the issuer would have
been required to incorporate by reference under paragraph 3 of
subsection 11.1 (1) if the issuer were a reporting issuer at the
relevant time.



11.6 Marketing Materials


(1) If marketing materials were provided under subsection 7.6 (1) of the
Instrument or subsection 13.7 (1) or 13.8 (1) of NI 41-101, the issuer
must


(a) include a section under the heading "Marketing Materials" proximate
to the beginning of the short form prospectus that contains the
disclosure required by this Item,


(b) subject to subsection (2), include the template version of the
marketing materials filed under the Instrument or NI 41-101 in the final
short form prospectus, or incorporate by reference the template version
of the marketing materials filed under the Instrument or NI 41-101 into
the final short form prospectus, and


(c) indicate that the template version of the marketing materials is not
part of the final short form prospectus to the extent that the contents
of the template version of the marketing materials have been modified or
superseded by a statement contained in the final short form prospectus.


(2) An issuer may comply with paragraph (1) (b) by including the
template version of the marketing materials filed under the Instrument
or NI 41-101 in the section of the short form prospectus under the
heading "Marketing Materials" or in an appendix to the short form
prospectus that is referred to in that section.


(3) If the final short form prospectus or any amendment modifies a
statement of material fact that appeared in marketing materials provided
earlier,


(a) provide details of how the statement in the marketing materials has
been modified, and


(b) disclose that, pursuant to subsection 7.6 (7) of the Instrument or
subsection 13.7 (8) or 13.8 (8) of NI 41-101,


(i) the issuer has prepared a revised template version of the marketing
materials which has been blacklined to show the modified statement, and


(ii) the revised template version of the marketing materials can be
viewed under the issuer's profile on www.sedarplus.com.


(4) State that any template version of the marketing materials filed
under NI 41-101 after the date of the final short form prospectus and
before the termination of the distribution is deemed to be incorporated
into the final short form prospectus.


(5) If the issuer relies on the exception in subsection 7.8 (1) of the
Instrument or subsection 13.12 (1) of NI 41-101, include the statement
set out in subsection 36.A.1 (5) of Form 41-101F1, or words to the same
effect.


GUIDANCE



Marketing materials do not, as a matter of law, amend a preliminary
short form prospectus, a final short form prospectus or any amendment.





Item 12: Additional Disclosure for Issues of Guaranteed
Securities




12.1 Credit Supporter Disclosure
— Provide disclosure about each credit supporter, if any, that has
provided a guarantee or alternative credit support for all or
substantially all of the payments to be made under the securities to be
distributed, by complying with the following:


1. If the credit supporter is a reporting issuer in at least one
jurisdiction and has a current AIF, incorporating by reference into the
short form prospectus all documents that would be required to be
incorporated by reference under Item 11 if the credit supporter were the
issuer of the securities.


2. If the credit supporter is not a reporting issuer in any jurisdiction
and has a class of securities registered under section 12 (b) or 12 (g)
of the 1934 Act, or is required to file reports under section 15 (d) of
the 1934 Act, incorporating by reference into the short form prospectus
all 1934 Act filings that would be required to be incorporated by
reference in a Form S-3 or Form F-3 registration statement filed under
the 1933 Act if the securities distributed under the short form
prospectus were being registered on Form S-3 or Form F-3.


3. If neither paragraph 1 nor paragraph 2 applies to the credit
supporter, providing directly in the short form prospectus the same
disclosure that would be contained in the short form prospectus through
the incorporation by reference of the documents referred to in Item 11
if the credit supporter were the issuer of the securities and those
documents had been prepared by the credit supporter.


4. Providing such other information about the credit supporter as is
necessary to provide full, true and plain disclosure of all material
facts concerning the securities to be distributed, including the credit
supporter's earnings coverage ratios under Item 6 as if the credit
supporter were the issuer of the securities.




Item 13: Exemptions for Certain Issues of Guaranteed Securities




13.1 Definitions and Interpretation

(1) In this Item

(a) the impact of subsidiaries, on a combined basis, on the financial
results of the parent entity is "minor" if each item of the summary
financial information of the subsidiaries, on a combined basis,
represents less than 3% of the total consolidated amounts,


(b) a parent entity has "limited independent operations" if each item of
its summary financial information represents less than 3% of the total
consolidated amounts,


(c) a subsidiary is a "finance subsidiary" if it has minimal assets,
operations, revenue or cash flows other than those related to the
issuance, administration and repayment of the security being distributed
and any other securities guaranteed by its parent entity,


(d) "parent credit supporter" means a credit supporter of which the
issuer is a subsidiary,


(e) "parent entity" means a parent credit supporter for the purposes of
sections 13.2 and 13.3 and an issuer for the purpose of section 13.4,


(f) "subsidiary credit supporter" means a credit supporter that is a
subsidiary of the parent credit supporter, and


(g) "summary financial information" includes the following line items:

(i) revenue;

(ii) profit or loss from continuing operations attributable to owners of
the parent;


(iii) profit or loss attributable to owners of the parent; and


(iv) unless the issuer's GAAP permits the preparation of the credit
support issuer's statement of financial position without classifying
assets and liabilities between current and non-current and the credit
support issuer provides alternative meaningful financial information
which is more appropriate to the industry,

(A) current assets;
(B) non-current assets;
(C) current liabilities; and
(D) non-current liabilities.


INSTRUCTION: See section 1.1 of NI 41-101 for the definitions of
"profit or loss attributable to owners of the parent" and "profit or
loss from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent".



(2) For the purposes of this Item, consolidating summary financial
information must be prepared on the following basis


(a) an entity's annual or interim summary financial information must be
derived from the entity's financial information underlying the
corresponding consolidated financial statements of the parent entity
included in the short form prospectus,


(b) the parent entity column must account for investments in all
subsidiaries under the equity method, and


(c) all subsidiary entity columns must account for investments in
non-credit supporter subsidiaries under the equity method.




13.2 Issuer is Wholly-owned Subsidiary of Parent Credit Supporter

— Despite Items 6 and 11, an issuer is not required to incorporate by
reference into the short form prospectus any of its documents under
paragraphs 1 to 4 and 6 to 8 of subsection 11.1 (1) or include in the
short form prospectus its earning coverage ratios under section 6.1, if


(a) a parent credit supporter has provided full and unconditional credit
support for the securities being distributed;


(b) the parent credit supporter satisfies the criterion in paragraph
2.4 (1) (b) of the Instrument;


(c) the securities being distributed are non-convertible debt
securities, non-convertible preferred shares, or convertible debt
securities or convertible preferred shares that are convertible, in each
case, into non-convertible securities of the parent credit supporter;


(d) the parent credit supporter is the beneficial owner of all the
issued and outstanding equity securities of the issuer;


(e) no other subsidiary of the parent credit supporter has provided a
guarantee or alternative credit support for all or substantially all of
the payments to be made under the securities being distributed;


(f) the issuer includes in the short form prospectus either


(i) a statement that the financial results of the issuer are included in
the consolidated financial results of the parent credit supporter, if

(A) the issuer is a finance subsidiary, and

(B) the impact of any subsidiaries of the parent credit supporter on a
combined basis, excluding the issuer, on the consolidated financial
results of the parent credit supporter is minor, or


(ii) for the periods covered by the parent credit supporter's
consolidated interim financial report and consolidated annual financial
statements included in the short form prospectus under section 12.1,
consolidating summary financial information for the parent credit
supporter presented with a separate column for each of the following:

(A) the parent credit supporter;
(B) the issuer;

(C) any other subsidiaries of the parent credit supporter on a combined
basis;

(D) consolidating adjustments;
(E) the total consolidated amounts.



13.3 Issuer is Wholly-owned Subsidiary of, and One or More Subsidiary
Credit Supporters Controlled by, Parent Credit Supporter



(1) Despite Items 6, 11 and 12, an issuer is not required to incorporate
by reference into the short form prospectus any of its documents under
paragraphs 1 to 4 and 6 to 8 of subsection 11.1 (1), or include in the
short form prospectus its earning coverage ratios under section 6.1, or
include in the short form prospectus the disclosure of one or more
subsidiary credit supporters required by section 12.1, if


(a) a parent credit supporter and one or more subsidiary credit
supporters have each provided full and unconditional credit support for
the securities being distributed;


(b) the parent credit supporter satisfies the criterion in paragraph 2.4
(1) (b) of the Instrument;


(c) the guarantees or alternative credit supports are joint and several;


(d) the securities being distributed are non-convertible debt
securities, non-convertible preferred shares, or convertible debt
securities or convertible preferred shares that are convertible, in each
case, into non-convertible securities of the parent credit supporter;


(e) the parent credit supporter is the beneficial owner of all the
issued and outstanding equity securities of the issuer;


(f) the parent credit supporter controls each subsidiary credit
supporter and the parent credit supporter has consolidated the financial
statements of each subsidiary credit supporter into the parent credit
supporter's financial statements that are included in the short form
prospectus; and


(g) the issuer includes in the short form prospectus for the periods
covered by the parent credit supporter's financial statements included
in the short form prospectus under section 12.1, consolidating summary
financial information for the parent credit supporter presented with a
separate column for each of the following:

(i) the parent credit supporter;
(ii) the issuer;

(iii) each subsidiary credit supporter on a combined basis;


(iv) any other subsidiaries of the parent credit supporter on a combined
basis;

(v) consolidating adjustments;
(vi) the total consolidated amounts.
(2) Despite paragraph (1) (g)

(a) if the impact of any subsidiaries of the parent credit supporter on
a combined basis, excluding the issuer and all subsidiary credit
supporters, on the consolidated financial results of the parent credit
supporter is minor, column (iv) may be combined with another column, and


(b) if the issuer is a finance subsidiary, column (ii) may be combined
with another column.




13.4 One or More Credit Supporters Controlled by Issuer

— Despite Item 12, an issuer is not required to include in the short
form prospectus the credit supporter disclosure for one or more credit
supporters required by section 12.1, if


(a) one or more credit supporters have each provided full and
unconditional credit support for the securities being distributed,


(b) if there is more than one credit supporter, the guarantee or
alternative credit supports are joint and several,


(c) the securities being distributed are non-convertible debt securities
or non-convertible preferred shares, or convertible debt securities or
convertible preferred shares that are convertible, in each case, into
non-convertible securities of the issuer,


(d) the issuer controls each credit supporter and the issuer has
consolidated the financial statements of each credit supporter into the
issuer's financial statements that are included in the short form
prospectus, and


(e) the issuer includes in the short form prospectus either


(i) a statement that the financial results of the credit supporter(s)
are included in the consolidated financial results of the issuer, if


(A) the issuer has limited independent operations, and


(B) the impact of any subsidiaries of the issuer on a combined basis,
excluding the credit supporter(s) but including any subsidiaries of the
credit supporter(s) that are not themselves credit supporters, on the
consolidated financial results of the issuer is minor, or


(ii) for the periods covered by the issuer's financial statements
included in the short form prospectus under Item 11, consolidating
summary financial information for the issuer, presented with a separate
column for each of the following:

(A) the issuer;
(B) the credit supporters on a combined basis;

(C) any other subsidiaries of the issuer on a combined basis;

(D) consolidating adjustments;
(E) the total consolidated amounts.



Item 14: Relationship between Issuer or Selling Securityholder
and Underwriter





14.1 Relationship between Issuer or Selling Securityholder and
Underwriter



(1) If the issuer or selling securityholder is a connected issuer or
related issuer of an underwriter of the distribution, or if the issuer
or selling securityholder is also an underwriter of the distribution,
comply with the requirements of NI 33-105.


(2) For the purposes of subsection (1),
"connected issuer"
and
"related issuer"
have the same meaning as in NI 33-105.



INSTRUCTION: For the purposes of section 14.1, "connected issuer"
and "related issuer" have the same meanings as in National Instrument
33-105 Underwriting Conflicts.




Item 15: Interest of Experts



15.1 Names of Experts
— Name each person or company


(a) who is named as having prepared or certified a report, valuation,
statement or opinion in the short form prospectus or an amendment to the
short form prospectus, either directly or in a document incorporated by
reference; and


(b) whose profession or business gives authority to the report,
valuation, statement or opinion made by the person or company.



15.2 Interest of Experts
— For each person or company referred to in section 15.1, provide the
disclosure that would be required under section 16.2 of Form 51-102F2,
as of the date of the short form prospectus, as if that person or
company were a person or company referred to in section 16.1 of Form
51-102F2.



15.3 Exemption
— Sections 15.1 and 15.2 do not apply to a person or company if the
disclosure regarding the person or company required under section 15.2
is already disclosed in the issuer's current AIF and the disclosure is
correct as at the date of the prospectus.



Item 16: Promoters



16.1 Promoters


(1) For a person or company that is, or has been within the two years
immediately preceding the date of the short form prospectus, a promoter
of the issuer or subsidiary of the issuer, state, to the extent not
disclosed elsewhere in a document incorporated by reference in the short
form prospectus,

(a) the person or company's name,

(b) the number and percentage of each class of voting securities and
equity securities of the issuer or any of its subsidiaries beneficially
owned, or controlled or directed, directly or indirectly, by the person
or company,


(c) the nature and amount of anything of value, including money,
property, contracts, options or rights of any kind received or to be
received by the promoter, directly or indirectly, from the issuer or
from a subsidiary of the issuer, and the nature and amount of any
assets, services or other consideration received or to be received by
the issuer or a subsidiary of the issuer in return, and


(d) for an asset acquired within the two years before the date of the
preliminary short form prospectus, or to be acquired, by the issuer or
by a subsidiary of the issuer from a promoter,


(i) the consideration paid or to be paid for the asset and the method by
which the consideration has been or will be determined,


(ii) the person or company making the determination referred to in
subparagraph (i) and the person or company's relationship with the
issuer or the promoter or an affiliate of the issuer or promoter, and


(iii) the date that the asset was acquired by the promoter and the cost
of the asset to the promoter.


(2) If a promoter referred to in subsection (1) is, as at the date of
the preliminary short form prospectus, or was within 10 years before the
date of the preliminary short form prospectus, a director, chief
executive officer or chief financial officer of any person or company
that


(a) was subject to an order that was issued while the promoter was
acting in the capacity as director, chief executive officer or chief
financial officer, or


(b) was subject to an order that was issued after the promoter ceased to
be a director, chief executive officer or chief financial officer and
which resulted from an event that occurred while the promoter was acting
in the capacity as director, chief executive officer or chief financial
officer,


state the fact and describe the basis on which the order was made and
whether the order is still in effect.


(3) For the purposes of subsection (2),
"order"
means:

(a) a cease trade order,
(b) an order similar to a cease trade order, or

(c) an order that denied the relevant person or company access to any
exemption under securities legislation,


that was in effect for a period of more than 30 consecutive days.

(4) If a promoter referred to in subsection (1)

(a) is, at the date of the preliminary short form prospectus, or has
been within the 10 years before the date of the preliminary short form
prospectus, a director or executive officer of any person or company
that, while the promoter was acting in that capacity, or within a year
of that person ceasing to act in that capacity, became bankrupt, made a
proposal under any legislation relating to bankruptcy or insolvency or
was subject to or instituted any proceedings, arrangement or compromise
with creditors or had a receiver, receiver manager or trustee appointed
to hold its assets, state the fact, or


(b) has, within the 10 years before the date of the preliminary short
form prospectus, become bankrupt, made a proposal under any legislation
relating to bankruptcy or insolvency, or became subject to or instituted
any proceedings, arrangement or compromise with creditors, or had a
receiver, receiver manager or trustee appointed to hold the assets of
the promoter, state the fact.


(5) Describe the penalties or sanctions imposed and the grounds on which
they were imposed or the terms of the settlement agreement and the
circumstances that gave rise to the settlement agreement, if a promoter
referred to in subsection (1) has been subject to


(a) any penalties or sanctions imposed by a court relating to provincial
and territorial securities legislation or by a provincial and
territorial securities regulatory authority or has entered into a
settlement agreement with a provincial and territorial securities
regulatory authority, or


(b) any other penalties or sanctions imposed by a court or regulatory
body that would be likely to be considered important to a reasonable
investor in making an investment decision.


(6) Despite subsection (5), no disclosure is required of a settlement
agreement entered into before December 31, 2000 unless the disclosure
would likely be considered important to a reasonable investor in making
an investment decision.


INSTRUCTIONS:



(1) The disclosure required by subsections (2), (4) and (5) also
applies to any personal holding companies of any of the persons
referred to in subsections (2), (4), and (5).




(2) A management cease trade order which applies to a promoter
referred to in subsection (1) is an "order" for the purposes of
paragraph (2) (a) and must be disclosed, whether or not the director,
chief executive officer or chief financial officer was named in the
order.




(3) For the purposes of this section, a late filing fee, such as a
filing fee that applies to the late filing of an insider report, is
not a "penalty or sanction".




(4) The disclosure in paragraph (2) (a) only applies if the promoter
was a director, chief executive officer or chief financial officer
when the order was issued against the person or company. The issuer
does not have to provide disclosure if the promoter became a director,
chief executive officer or chief financial officer after the order was
issued.




Item 17: Risk Factors



17.1 Risk Factors
— Describe the factors material to the issuer that a reasonable investor
would consider relevant to an investment in the securities being
distributed.


INSTRUCTIONS:



(1) Issuers may cross-reference to specific risk factors relevant to
the securities being distributed that are discussed in their current
AIF.




(2) Disclose risks in the order of seriousness from the most serious
to the least serious.




(3) A risk factor should not be de-emphasized by including excessive
caveats or conditions.




Item 18: Other Material Facts



18.1 Other Material Facts
— Give particulars of any material facts about the securities being
distributed that are not disclosed under any other items or in the
documents incorporated by reference into the short form prospectus and
are necessary in order for the short form prospectus to contain full,
true and plain disclosure of all material facts relating to the
securities to be distributed.



Item 19: Exemptions from the Instrument



19.1 Exemptions from the Instrument
— List all exemptions from the provisions of the Instrument, including
this Form, granted to the issuer applicable to the distribution or the
short form prospectus, including all exemptions to be evidenced by the
issuance of a receipt for the short form prospectus pursuant to section
8.2 of the Instrument.




Item 20: Statutory Rights of Withdrawal and Recission




20.1 General
— Include a statement in substantially the following form, with the
bracketed information completed:


"Securities legislation in [certain of the provinces [and territories]
of Canada/the Province of [insert name of local jurisdiction, if
applicable]] provides purchasers with the right to withdraw from an
agreement to purchase securities. This right may be exercised within two
business days after receipt or deemed receipt of a prospectus and any
amendment. [In several of the provinces/provinces and territories,]
[T/t]he securities legislation further provides a purchaser with
remedies for rescission [or[, in some jurisdictions,] revisions of the
price or damages] if the prospectus and any amendment contains a
misrepresentation or is not delivered to the purchaser, provided that
the remedies for rescission [, revision of the price or damages] are
exercised by the purchaser within the time limit prescribed by the
securities legislation of the purchaser's province [or territory]. The
purchaser should refer to any applicable provisions of the securities
legislation of the purchaser's province [or territory] for the
particulars of these rights or consult with a legal adviser."



20.2 Non-fixed Price Offerings
— In the case of a non-fixed price offering, replace, if applicable in
the jurisdiction in which the short form prospectus is filed, the second
sentence in the legend in section 20.1 with a statement in substantially
the following form:


"This right may only be exercised within two business days after receipt
or deemed receipt of a prospectus and any amendment, irrespective of the
determination at a later date of the purchase price of the securities
distributed."




20.3 Convertible, Exchangeable or Exercisable Securities

— In the case of an offering of convertible, exchangeable or exercisable
securities in which additional amounts are payable or may become payable
upon conversion, exchange or exercise, provide a statement in the
following form:


"In an offering of [state name of convertible, exchangeable or
exercisable securities], investors are cautioned that the statutory
right of action for damages for a misrepresentation contained in the
prospectus is limited, in certain provincial [and territorial]
securities legislation, to the price at which the [state name of
convertible, exchangeable or exercisable securities] is offered to the
public under the prospectus offering. This means that, under the
securities legislation of certain provinces [and territories], if the
purchaser pays additional amounts upon [conversion, exchange or
exercise] of the security, those amounts may not be recoverable under
the statutory right of action for damages that applies in those
provinces [and territories]. The purchaser should refer to any
applicable provisions of the securities legislation of the purchaser's
province [or territory] for the particulars of this right of action for
damages or consult with a legal adviser."



INSTRUCTION: For greater certainty, in the case of a short form
prospectus that is a base shelf prospectus under NI 44-102, issuers
must include the above statement, unless it is stated in the base
shelf prospectus that no convertible, exchangeable or exercisable
securities will be offered, or that such securities may be offered but
no amounts will be payable to convert, exchange or exercise those
securities.




Item 21: Certificates



21.1 Certificates
— Include the certificates required by Part 5 of NI 41-101 or by other
securities legislation.



21.2 Issuer Certificate Form
— An issuer certificate form must state


"This short form prospectus, together with the documents incorporated by
reference, constitutes full, true and plain disclosure of all material
facts relating to the securities offered by this short form prospectus
as required by the securities legislation of [insert the jurisdictions
in which qualified]."



21.3 Underwriter Certificate Form
— An underwriter certificate form must state


"To the best of our knowledge, information and belief, this short form
prospectus, together with the documents incorporated by reference,
constitutes full, true and plain disclosure of all material facts
relating to the securities offered by this short form prospectus as
required by the securities legislation of [insert the jurisdictions in
which qualified]."



21.4 Amendments


(1) For an amendment to a short form prospectus that does not restate
the short form prospectus, change "short form prospectus" to "short form
prospectus dated [insert date] as amended by this amendment" wherever it
appears in the statements in sections 21.2 and 21.3.


(2) For an amended and restated short form prospectus, change "short
form prospectus" to "amended and restated short form prospectus"
wherever it appears in the statements in sections 21.2 and 21.3.


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Securities Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, s. 184.]



