







B.C. Reg. 21/2008


British Columbia Securities Commission



Deposited January 30, 2008

effective February 1, 2008





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Securities Act



National Instrument 62-104
Take-Over Bids and Issuer Bids


[Last amended June 9, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 140/2023]



Part 1 â€” Definitions and Interpretation





Definitions




1.1


In this Instrument,


"Act"
means, in the jurisdiction, the statute referred to in Appendix B to
National Instrument 14-101
Definitions
;



"alternative transaction"

means, for an issuer:




(a)

an amalgamation, merger, arrangement, consolidation, or any other
transaction of the issuer, or an amendment to the terms of a class of
equity securities of the issuer, as a consequence of which the
interest of a holder of an equity security of the issuer may be
terminated without the holder's consent, regardless of whether the
equity security is replaced with another security, but does not
include




(i)

a consolidation of securities that does not have the effect of
terminating the interests of holders of equity securities of the
issuer in those securities without their consent, except to an extent
that is nominal in the circumstances,




(ii)

a circumstance in which the issuer may terminate a holder's interest
in a security, under the terms attached to the security, for the
purpose of enforcing an ownership or voting constraint that is
necessary to enable the issuer to comply with legislation, lawfully
engage in a particular activity or have a specified level of Canadian
ownership, or




(iii)

a transaction solely between or among the issuer and one or more
subsidiaries of the issuer;




(b)

a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all the property of
the issuer if the sale, lease or exchange is not in the ordinary
course of business of the issuer, but does not include a sale, lease
or exchange solely between or among the issuer and one or more
subsidiaries of the issuer;


"associate"
, when used to indicate a relationship with a person, means




(a)

an issuer of which the person beneficially owns or controls, directly
or indirectly, voting securities entitling the person to more than 10%
of the voting rights attached to outstanding securities of the issuer,




(b)

any partner of the person,




(c)

any trust or estate in which the person has a substantial beneficial
interest or in respect of which a person serves as trustee or in a
similar capacity, or




(d)

a relative of that person, if the relative has the same home as that
person, including




(i)

the spouse or, in Alberta, adult interdependent partner of that
person, or




(ii)

a relative of the person's spouse or, in Alberta, adult interdependent
partner;



"bid circular"

means a bid circular prepared in accordance with section 2.10;



"business day"

means a day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day that is a
statutory holiday in the jurisdiction;



"class of securities"

includes a series of a class of securities;


"consultant"
has the same meaning as in National Instrument 45-106
Prospectus Exemptions
;



"deposit period news release"

means a news release issued by an offeree issuer in respect of a
proposed or commenced take-over bid for the securities of the offeree
issuer and stating an initial deposit period for the bid of not more
than 105 days and not less than 35 days, expressed as a number of days
from the date of the bid;



"equity security"

means a security of an issuer that carries a residual right to
participate in the earnings of the issuer and, on liquidation or
winding up of the issuer, in its assets;



"initial deposit period"

means the period, including any extension, during which securities may
be deposited under a take-over bid but does not include




(a)

a mandatory 10-day extension period, or




(b)

any extension to the period during which securities may be deposited
if the extension is made after a mandatory 10-day extension period;


"issuer bid"
means an offer to acquire or redeem securities of an issuer made by
the issuer to one or more persons, any of whom is in the local
jurisdiction or whose last address as shown on the books of the
offeree issuer is in the local jurisdiction, and also includes an
acquisition or redemption of securities of the issuer by the issuer
from those persons, but does not include an offer to acquire or
redeem, or an acquisition or redemption if




(a)

no valuable consideration is offered or paid by the issuer for the
securities,




(b)

the offer to acquire or redeem, or the acquisition or redemption is a
step in an amalgamation, merger, reorganization or arrangement that
requires approval in a vote of security holders, or




(c)

the securities are debt securities that are not convertible into
securities other than debt securities;



"mandatory 10-day extension period"

means the period referred to in paragraph 2.31.1 (a);



"offer to acquire"

means




(a)

an offer to purchase, or a solicitation of an offer to sell,
securities,




(b)

an acceptance of an offer to sell securities, whether or not the offer
has been solicited, or




(c)

any combination of the above;



"offeree issuer"

means an issuer whose securities are the subject of a take-over bid,
an issuer bid or an offer to acquire;


"offeror"
means, except in Division 1 of Part 2 of this Instrument, a person
that makes a take-over bid, an issuer bid or an offer to acquire;



"offeror's securities"

means securities of an offeree issuer beneficially owned, or over
which control or direction is exercised, on the date of an offer to
acquire, by an offeror or any person acting jointly or in concert with
the offeror;



"partial take-over bid"

means a take-over bid for less than all of the outstanding securities
of the class of securities subject to the bid;


"person"
includes




(a)

an individual,




(b)

a corporation,




(c)

a partnership, trust, fund and an association, syndicate, organization
or other organized group of persons, whether incorporated or not, and




(d)

an individual or other person in that person's capacity as a trustee,
executor, administrator or personal or other legal representative;



"published market"

means, with respect to any class of securities, a market in Canada or
outside of Canada on which the securities are traded, if the prices at
which they have been traded on that market are regularly




(a)

disseminated electronically, or




(b)

published in a newspaper or business or financial publication of
general and regular paid circulation;



"standard trading unit"

means




(a)

1 000 units of a security with a market price of less than $0.10 per
unit,




(b)

500 units of a security with a market price of $0.10 or more per unit
and less than $1.00 per unit, and




(c)

100 units of a security with a market price of $1.00 or more per unit;


"subsidiary"
means an issuer that is controlled directly or indirectly by another
issuer and includes a subsidiary of that subsidiary;



"take-over bid"

means an offer to acquire outstanding voting securities or equity
securities of a class made to one or more persons, any of whom is in
the local jurisdiction or whose last address as shown on the books of
the offeree issuer is in the local jurisdiction, where the securities
subject to the offer to acquire, together with the offeror's
securities, constitute in the aggregate 20% or more of the outstanding
securities of that class of securities at the date of the offer to
acquire but does not include an offer to acquire if the offer to
acquire is a step in an amalgamation, merger, reorganization or
arrangement that requires approval in a vote of security holders.


[am. B.C. Regs. 67/2015, Sch. B, s. 1 (k); 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 3.]






Definitions for purposes of the Act




1.2

(1)


Except in Saskatchewan, in the Act,




(a)

"offer to acquire"
has the same meaning as in this Instrument, and




(b)

"offeror"
has the same meaning as in section 1.1 of this Instrument.




(2)

In the definition of "issuer bid" in the Act, the prescribed class of
issuer bids is that set out in the definition of "issuer bid" in this
Instrument.




(3)

In the definition of "take-over bid" in the Act, the prescribed class
of take-over bids is that set out in the definition of "take-over bid"
in this Instrument.






Affiliate




1.3


In this Instrument, an issuer is an affiliate of another issuer if




(a)

one of them is the subsidiary of the other, or




(b)

each of them is controlled by the same person.






Control




1.4


In this Instrument, a person controls a second person if




(a)

the first person, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns or
exercises control or direction over securities of the second person
carrying votes which, if exercised, would entitle the first person to
elect a majority of the directors of the second person, unless the
first person holds the voting securities only to secure an obligation,




(b)

the second person is a partnership, other than a limited partnership,
and the first person holds more than 50% of the interests of the
partnership, or




(c)

the second person is a limited partnership and the general partner of
the limited partnership is the first person.






Computation of time




1.5


In this Instrument, a period of days is to be computed as beginning on
the day following the event that began the period and ending at 11:59
p.m. on the last day of the period if that day is a business day or at
11:59 p.m. on the next business day if the last day of the period does
not fall on a business day.






Expiry of bid




1.6


A take-over bid or an issuer bid expires at the later of




(a)

the end of the period, including any extension, during which
securities may be deposited under the bid, and




(b)

the time at which the offeror becomes obligated by the terms of the
bid to take up or reject securities deposited under the bid.






Convertible securities




1.7


In this Instrument,




(a)

a security is deemed to be convertible into a security of another
class if, whether or not on conditions, it is or may be convertible
into or exchangeable for, or if it carries the right or obligation to
acquire, a security of the other class, whether of the same or another
issuer, and




(b)

a security that is convertible into a security of another class is
deemed to be convertible into a security or securities of each class
into which the second-mentioned security may be converted, either
directly or through securities of one or more other classes of
securities that are themselves convertible.






Deemed beneficial ownership




1.8

(1)


In this Instrument, in determining the beneficial ownership of
securities of an offeror, of an acquiror or of any person acting
jointly or in concert with the offeror or the acquiror, at any given
date, the offeror, the acquiror or the person is deemed to have
acquired and to be the beneficial owner of a security, including an
unissued security, if the offeror, the acquiror or the person




(a)

is the beneficial owner of a security convertible into the security
within 60 days following that date, or




(b)

has a right or obligation permitting or requiring the offeror, the
acquiror or the person, whether or not on conditions, to acquire
beneficial ownership of the security within 60 days by a single
transaction or a series of linked transactions.




(2)

The number of outstanding securities of a class in respect of an offer
to acquire includes securities that are beneficially owned as
determined in accordance with subsection (1).




(3)

If 2 or more offerors acting jointly or in concert make one or more
offers to acquire securities of a class, the securities subject to the
offer or offers to acquire are deemed to be securities subject to the
offer to acquire of each offeror for the purpose of determining
whether an offeror is making a take-over bid.




(4)

In this section, an offeror is not a beneficial owner of securities
solely because there is an agreement, commitment or understanding that
a security holder will tender the securities under a take-over bid or
an issuer bid, made by the offeror, that is not exempt from Part 2.




(5)

In QuÃ©bec, for the purposes of this Instrument, a person that
beneficially owns securities means a person that owns the securities
or that holds securities registered under the name of an intermediary
acting as nominee, including a trustee or agent.

[am. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 4.]





Acting jointly or in concert




1.9

(1)


In this Instrument, it is a question of fact as to whether a person is
acting jointly or in concert with an offeror or an acquiror and,
without limiting the generality of the foregoing,




(a)

the following are deemed to be acting jointly or in concert with an
offeror or an acquiror:




(i)

a person that, as a result of any agreement, commitment or
understanding with the offeror, the acquiror or with any other person
acting jointly or in concert with the offeror or the acquiror,
acquires or offers to acquire securities of the same class as those
subject to the offer to acquire;




(ii)

an affiliate of the offeror or the acquiror;




(b)

the following are presumed to be acting jointly or in concert with an
offeror or an acquiror:




(i)

a person that, as a result of any agreement, commitment or
understanding with the offeror, the acquiror or with any other person
acting jointly or in concert with the offeror or the acquiror, intends
to exercise jointly or in concert with the offeror, the acquiror or
with any person acting jointly or in concert with the offeror or the
acquiror any voting rights attaching to any securities of the offeree
issuer;




(ii)

an associate of the offeror or the acquiror.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a registered dealer acting solely in
an agency capacity for the offeror in connection with a bid and not
executing principal transactions in the class of securities subject to
the offer to acquire or performing services beyond the customary
functions of a registered dealer.




(3)

For the purposes of this section, a person is not acting jointly or in
concert with an offeror solely because there is an agreement,
commitment or understanding that the person will tender securities
under a take-over bid or an issuer bid, made by the offeror, that is
not exempt from Part 2.

[am. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 5.]





Application to direct and indirect offers




1.10


In this Instrument, a reference to an offer to acquire or to the
acquisition or ownership of securities or to control or direction over
securities includes a direct or indirect offer to acquire or the
direct or indirect acquisition or ownership of securities, or the
direct or indirect control or direction over securities, as the case
may be.






Determination of market price




1.11

(1)


In this Instrument,




(a)

the market price of a class of securities for which there is a
published market, at any date, is an amount equal to the simple
average of the closing price of securities of that class for each of
the business days on which there was a closing price in the 20
business days preceding that date,




(b)

if a published market does not provide a closing price, but provides
only the highest and lowest prices of securities traded on a
particular day, the market price of the securities, at any date, is an
amount equal to the average of the simple averages of the highest and
lowest prices for each of the business days on which there were
highest and lowest prices in the 20 business days preceding that date,
and




(c)

if there has been trading of securities in a published market for
fewer than 10 of the 20 business days preceding the date as of which
the market price of the securities is being determined, the market
price is the average of the following prices established for each day
of the 20 business days preceding that date:




(i)

the average of the closing bid and ask prices for each day on which
there was no trading; and




(ii)

either the closing price of securities of the class for each day that
there has been trading, if the published market provides a closing
price, or the average of the highest and lowest prices of securities
of that class for each day that there has been trading, if the
published market provides only the highest and lowest prices of
securities traded on a particular day.




(2)

If there is more than one published market for a security, the market
price in paragraphs (1) (a), (b) and (c) must be determined as
follows:




(a)

if only one of the published markets is in Canada, the market price
must be determined solely by reference to that market;




(b)

if there is more than one published market in Canada, the market price
must be determined solely by reference to the published market in
Canada on which the greatest volume of trading in the particular class
of securities occurred during the 20 business days preceding the date
as of which the market price is being determined;




(c)

if there is no published market in Canada, the market price must be
determined solely by reference to the published market on which the
greatest volume of trading in the particular class of securities
occurred during the 20 business days preceding the date as of which
the market price is being determined.




(3)

Despite subsections (1) and (2) for the purposes of section 4.1 and
subsection 4.8 (3), if an offeror acquires securities on a published
market, the market price for those securities is the price of the last
standard trading unit of securities of that class purchased, before
the acquisition by the offeror, by a person who was not acting jointly
or in concert with the offeror.

[am. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 6.]



Part 2 â€” Bids



Division 1 â€” Restrictions on Acquisitions or Sales





Definition of "offeror"




2.1


In this Division,
"offeror"
means




(a)

a person making a take-over bid or an issuer bid that is not exempt
from Part 2,




(b)

a person acting jointly or in concert with a person referred to in
paragraph (a),




(c)

a control person of a person referred to in paragraph (a), or




(d)

a person acting jointly or in concert with a control person referred
to in paragraph (c).






Restrictions on acquisitions during take-over bid




2.2

(1)


An offeror must not offer to acquire, or make or enter into an
agreement, commitment or understanding to acquire beneficial ownership
of any securities of the class that are subject to a take-over bid or
securities convertible into securities of that class otherwise than
under the bid on and from the day of the announcement of the offeror's
intention to make the bid until the expiry of the bid.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to an agreement between a security
holder and the offeror to the effect that the security holder will, in
accordance with the terms and conditions of a take-over bid that is
not exempt from Part 2, deposit the security holder's securities under
the bid.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), an offeror may purchase securities of the
class that are subject to a take-over bid and securities convertible
into securities of that class beginning on the 3rd business day
following the date of the bid until the expiry of the bid if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:




(a)

the intention of the offeror,




(i)

on the date of the bid, is to make purchases and that intention is
stated in the bid circular, or




(ii)

to make purchases changes after the date of the bid and that intention
is stated in a news release issued and filed at least one business day
prior to making such purchases;




(b)

the number of securities beneficially acquired under this subsection
does not exceed 5% of the outstanding securities of that class as at
the date of the bid;




(c)

the purchases are made in the normal course on a published market;




(d)

the offeror issues and files a news release immediately after the
close of business of the published market on each day on which
securities have been purchased under this subsection disclosing the
following information:




(i)

the name of the purchaser;




(ii)

if the purchaser is a person referred to in paragraph 2.1 (b), (c) or
(d), the relationship of the purchaser and the offeror;




(iii)

the number of securities purchased on the day for which the news
release is required;




(iv)

the highest price paid for the securities on the day for which the
news release is required;




(v)

the aggregate number of securities purchased on the published market
during the currency of the bid;




(vi)

the average price paid for the securities that were purchased on the
published market during the currency of the bid; and




(vii)

the total number of securities owned by the purchaser after giving
effect to the purchases that are the subject of the news release;




(e)

no broker acting for the offeror performs services beyond the
customary broker's functions in regard to the purchases;




(f)

no broker acting for the offeror receives more than the usual fees or
commissions in regard to the purchases than are charged for comparable
services performed by the broker in the normal course;




(g)

the offeror or any person acting for the offeror does not solicit or
arrange for the solicitation of offers to sell securities of the class
subject to the bid, except for the solicitation by the offeror or
members of the soliciting dealer group under the bid;




(h)

the seller or any person acting for the seller does not, to the
knowledge of the offeror, solicit or arrange for the solicitation of
offers to buy securities of the class subject to the bid.




(4)

For the purposes of paragraph 2.2 (3) (b), the acquisition of
beneficial ownership of securities that are convertible into
securities of the class that is subject to the bid shall be deemed to
be an acquisition of the securities as converted.






Restrictions on acquisitions during issuer bid




2.3

(1)


An offeror must not offer to acquire, or make or enter into an
agreement, commitment or understanding to acquire, beneficial
ownership of any securities of the class that are subject to an issuer
bid, or securities that are convertible into securities of that class,
otherwise than under the bid on and from the day of the announcement
of the offeror's intention to make the bid until the expiry of the
bid.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not prevent the offeror from purchasing, redeeming
or otherwise acquiring any securities of the class subject to the bid
in reliance on an exemption under paragraph 4.6 (a), (b) or (c).






Restrictions on acquisitions before take-over bid




2.4

(1)


If, within the period of 90 days immediately preceding a take-over
bid, an offeror acquired beneficial ownership of securities of the
class subject to the bid in a transaction not generally available on
identical terms to holders of that class of securities,




(a)

the offeror must offer




(i)

consideration for securities deposited under the bid at least equal to
and in the same form as the highest consideration that was paid on a
per security basis under any such prior transaction, or




(ii)

at least the cash equivalent of that consideration, and




(b)

the offeror must offer to acquire under the bid that percentage of the
securities of the class subject to the bid that is at least equal to
the highest percentage that the number of securities acquired from a
seller in any such prior transaction was of the total number of
securities of that class beneficially owned by that seller at the time
of that prior transaction.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a transaction that occurred within 90
days preceding the bid if either of the following conditions are
satisfied:




(a)

the transaction is a trade in a security of the issuer that had not
been previously issued;




(b)

the transaction is a trade by or on behalf of the issuer in a
previously issued security of that issuer that had been redeemed or
purchased by, or donated to, that issuer.






Restrictions on acquisitions after bid




2.5


During the period beginning with the expiry of a take-over bid or an
issuer bid and ending at the end of the 20th business day after that,
whether or not any securities are taken up under the bid, an offeror
must not acquire or offer to acquire beneficial ownership of
securities of the class that was subject to the bid except by way of a
transaction that is generally available to holders of that class of
securities on identical terms.






Exception




2.6


Subsection 2.4 (1) and section 2.5 do not apply to purchases made by
an offeror in the normal course on a published market if all of the
following conditions are satisfied:




(a)

no broker acting for the offeror performs services beyond the
customary broker's functions in regard to the purchases;




(b)

no broker acting for the offeror receives more than the usual fees or
commissions in regard to the purchases than are charged for comparable
services performed by the broker in the normal course;




(c)

the offeror or any person acting for the offeror does not solicit or
arrange for the solicitation of offers to sell securities of the class
subject to the bid, except for the solicitation by the offeror or
members of the soliciting dealer group under the bid;




(d)

the seller or any person acting for the seller does not, to the
knowledge of the offeror, solicit or arrange for the solicitation of
offers to buy securities of the class subject to the bid.






Restrictions on sales during bid




2.7

(1)


An offeror, except under a take-over bid or an issuer bid, must not
sell, or make or enter into an agreement, commitment or understanding
to sell, any securities of the class subject to the bid, or securities
that are convertible into securities of that class, beginning on the
day of the announcement of the offeror's intention to make the bid
until the expiry of the bid.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), an offeror may, before the expiry of a bid,
make or enter into an agreement, commitment or understanding to sell
securities that may be taken up by the offeror under the bid, after
the expiry of the bid, if the intention to sell is disclosed in the
bid circular.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply to an offeror under an issuer bid in
respect of the issue of securities under a dividend plan, dividend
reinvestment plan, employee purchase plan or another similar plan.




Division 2 â€” Making a Bid





Duty to make bid to all security holders




2.8


An offeror must make a take-over bid or an issuer bid to all holders
of the class of securities subject to the bid who are in the local
jurisdiction by sending the bid to




(a)

each holder of that class of securities whose last address as shown on
the books of the offeree issuer is in the local jurisdiction, and




(b)

each holder of securities that, before the expiry of the deposit
period referred to in the bid, are convertible into securities of that
class, whose last address as shown on the books of the offeree issuer
is in the local jurisdiction.






Commencement of bid




2.9

(1)


An offeror must commence a take-over bid by




(a)

publishing an advertisement containing a brief summary of the
take-over bid in at least one major daily newspaper of general and
regular paid circulation in the local jurisdiction in English, and in
QuÃ©bec in French or in French and English, or




(b)

sending the bid to security holders described in section 2.8.




(2)

An offeror must commence an issuer bid by sending the bid to security
holders described in section 2.8.






Offeror's circular




2.10

(1)


An offeror making a take-over bid or an issuer bid must prepare and
send, either as part of the bid or together with the bid, a take-over
bid circular or an issuer bid circular, as the case may be, in the
following form:




(a)

Form 62-104F1 Take-Over Bid Circular, for a take-over bid; or




(b)

Form 62-104F2 Issuer Bid Circular, for an issuer bid.




(2)

An offeror commencing a take-over bid under paragraph 2.9 (1) (a)
must,




(a)

on or before the date of first publication of the advertisement,




(i)

deliver the bid and the bid circular to the offeree issuer's principal
office,




(ii)

file the bid, the bid circular and the advertisement,




(iii)

request from the offeree issuer a list of security holders described
in section 2.8, and




(b)

not later than 2 business days after receipt of the list of security
holders referred to in subparagraph (a) (iii), send the bid and the
bid circular to those security holders.




(3)

An offeror commencing a take-over bid under paragraph 2.9 (1) (b) must
file the bid and the bid circular and deliver them to the offeree
issuer's principal office on the day the bid is sent, or as soon as
practicable after that.




(4)

An offeror making an issuer bid must file the bid and the bid circular
on the day the bid is sent, or as soon as practicable after that.






Change in information




2.11

(1)


If, before the expiry of a take-over bid or an issuer bid or after the
expiry of a bid but before the expiry of all rights to withdraw the
securities deposited under the bid, a change has occurred in the
information contained in the bid circular or any notice of change or
notice of variation that would reasonably be expected to affect the
decision of the security holders of the offeree issuer to accept or
reject the bid, the offeror must promptly




(a)

issue and file a news release, and




(b)

send a notice of the change to every person to whom the bid was
required to be sent and whose securities were not taken up before the
date of the change.




(1.1)

Despite paragraph (1) (b), an offeror is not required to send a notice
of change to a security holder if, under paragraph 2.30 (2) (a.1), the
security holder is restricted from withdrawing securities that have
been deposited under the bid.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a change that is not within the
control of the offeror or of an affiliate of the offeror unless it is
a change in a material fact relating to the securities being offered
in exchange for securities of the offeree issuer.




(3)

In this section, a variation in the terms of a bid does not constitute
a change in information.




(4)

A notice of change must be in the form of Form 62-104F5 Notice of
Change or Notice of Variation.




(5)

If, under subsection (1), an offeror is required to send a notice of
change before the expiry of the initial deposit period,




(a)

the initial deposit period for the offeror's take-over bid must not
expire before 10 days after the date of the notice of change, and




(b)

the offeror must not take up securities deposited under the bid before
10 days after the date of the notice of change.

[am. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 7.]





Variation of terms




2.12

(1)


If there is a variation in the terms of a take-over bid or an issuer
bid, including any reduction of the period during which securities may
be deposited under the bid pursuant to section 2.28.2 or section
2.28.3, or any extension of the period during which securities may be
deposited under the bid, and whether or not that variation results
from the exercise of any right contained in the bid, the offeror must
promptly




(a)

issue and file a news release, and




(b)

send a notice of variation to every person to whom the bid was
required to be sent under section 2.8 and whose securities were not
taken up before the date of the variation.




(1.1)

Despite paragraph (1) (b), an offeror is not required to send a notice
of variation to a security holder if, under paragraph 2.30 (2) (a.1),
the security holder is restricted from withdrawing securities that
have been deposited under the bid.




(2)

A notice of variation must be in the form of Form 62-104F5 Notice of
Change or Notice of Variation.




(3)

If there is a variation in the terms of a take-over bid or an issuer
bid, the period during which securities may be deposited under the bid
must not expire before 10 days after the date of the notice of
variation.




(3.1)

If, under subsection (1), an offeror is required to send a notice of
variation before the expiry of the initial deposit period,




(a)

the initial deposit period for the offeror's take-over bid must not
expire before 10 days after the date of the notice of variation, and




(b)

the offeror must not take up securities deposited under the bid before
10 days after the date of the notice of variation.




(4)

Subsections (1), (3) and (3.1) do not apply to a variation in the
terms of a bid consisting solely of the waiver of a condition in the
bid and any extension of the bid, other than an extension in respect
of the mandatory 10-day extension period, resulting from the waiver
where the consideration offered for the securities consists solely of
cash, but in that case the offeror must promptly issue and file a news
release announcing the waiver.




(5)

An offeror must not make a variation in the terms of an issuer bid,
other than a variation that is the waiver by the offeror of a
condition that is specifically stated in the bid as being waivable at
the sole option of the offeror, after the expiry of the period,
including any extension of the period, during which the securities may
be deposited under the bid.




(6)

An offeror must not make a variation in the terms of a take-over bid,
other than a variation to extend the time during which securities may
be deposited under the bid or a variation to increase the
consideration offered for the securities subject to the bid, after the
offeror becomes obligated to take up securities deposited under the
bid in accordance with section 2.32.1.

[am. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 8.]





Filing and sending notice of change or notice of variation




2.13


A notice of change or notice of variation in respect of a take-over
bid or an issuer bid must be filed and, in the case of a take-over
bid, delivered to the offeree issuer's principal office, on the day
the notice of change or notice of variation is sent to security
holders of the offeree issuer, or as soon as practicable after that.






Change or variation in advertised take-over bid




2.14

(1)


If a change or variation occurs to a take-over bid that was commenced
by means of an advertisement, and if the offeror has complied with
paragraph 2.10 (2) (a) but has not yet sent the bid and the bid
circular under paragraph 2.10 (2) (b), the offeror must




(a)

publish an advertisement that contains a brief summary of the change
or variation in at least one major daily newspaper of general and
regular paid circulation in the local jurisdiction in English, and in
QuÃ©bec in French or in French and English,




(b)

concurrently with the date of first publication of the advertisement,




(i)

file the advertisement, and




(ii)

file and deliver a notice of change or notice of variation to the
offeree issuer's principal office, and




(c)

subsequently send the bid, the bid circular and the notice of change
or notice of variation to the security holders of the offeree issuer
before the expiration of the period set out in paragraph 2.10 (2) (b).




(2)

If an offeror satisfies the requirements of subsection (1), the notice
of change or notice of variation is not required to be filed and
delivered under section 2.13.






Consent of expert â€” bid circular




2.15

(1)


In this section and section 2.21, an expert includes a notary in
QuÃ©bec, solicitor, auditor, accountant, engineer, geologist or
appraiser or any other person whose profession or business gives
authority to a report, valuation, statement or opinion made by that
person.




(2)

If a report, valuation, statement or opinion of an expert is included
in or accompanies a bid circular or any notice of change or notice of
variation to the circular, the written consent of the expert to the
use of the report, valuation, statement or opinion must be filed
concurrently with the bid circular, notice of change or notice of
variation.






Delivery and date of bid documents




2.16

(1)


A take-over bid, an issuer bid, a bid circular and every notice of
change or notice of variation must be




(a)

mailed by pre-paid mail to the intended recipient, or




(b)

delivered to the intended recipient by personal delivery, courier or
other manner acceptable to the regulator or securities regulatory
authority.




(2)

Except for a take-over bid commenced by means of an advertisement in
accordance with paragraph 2.9 (1) (a), a bid, bid circular, notice of
change or notice of variation sent in accordance with this section is
deemed to be dated as of the date it was sent to all or substantially
all of the persons entitled to receive it.




(3)

If a take-over bid is commenced by means of an advertisement in
accordance with paragraph 2.9 (1) (a), a bid, bid circular, notice of
change or notice of variation is deemed to have been dated as of the
date of first publication of the relevant advertisement.




Division 3 â€” Offeree Issuer's Obligations





Duty to prepare and send directors' circular




2.17

(1)


If a take-over bid has been made, the board of directors of the
offeree issuer must prepare and send, not later than 15 days after the
date of the bid, a directors' circular to every person to whom the bid
was required to be sent under section 2.8.




(2)

The board of directors of the offeree issuer must evaluate the terms
of the take-over bid and, in the directors' circular,




(a)

must recommend to security holders that they accept or reject the bid
and state the reasons for the recommendation,




(b)

must advise security holders that the board is unable to make, or is
not making, a recommendation and state the reasons for being unable to
make a recommendation or for not making a recommendation, or




(c)

must advise security holders that the board is considering whether to
make a recommendation to accept or reject the bid, must state the
reasons for not making a recommendation in the directors' circular and
may advise security holders that they should not deposit their
securities under the bid until they receive further communication from
the board of directors in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b).




(3)

If paragraph (2) (c) applies, the board of directors must communicate
to security holders a recommendation to accept or reject the bid or
the decision that it is unable to make, or is not making, a
recommendation, together with the reasons for the recommendation or
decision, at least 7 days before the scheduled expiry of the initial
deposit period.




(4)

A directors' circular must be in the form of Form 62-104F3 Directors'
Circular.

[am. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 9.]





Notice of change




2.18

(1)


If, before the expiry of a take-over bid or after the expiry of a
take-over bid but before the expiry of all rights to withdraw the
securities deposited under the bid, a change has occurred in the
information contained in a directors' circular or in any notice of
change to the directors' circular that would reasonably be expected to
affect the decision of the security holders to accept or reject the
bid, the board of directors of the offeree issuer must promptly issue
and file a news release relating to the change and send a notice of
the change to every person to whom the take-over bid was required to
be sent disclosing the nature and substance of the change.




(2)

A notice of change must be in the form of Form 62-104F5 Notice of
Change or Notice of Variation.






Filing directors' circular or notice of change




2.19


The board of directors of the offeree issuer must concurrently file
the directors' circular or a notice of change in relation to it and
deliver it to the principal office of the offeror not later than the
date on which it is sent to the security holders of the offeree
issuer, or as soon as practicable after that date.






Individual director's or officer's circular




2.20

(1)


An individual director or officer may recommend acceptance or
rejection of a take-over bid if the director or officer sends with the
recommendation a separate director's or officer's circular to every
person to whom the take-over bid was required to be sent under section
2.8.




(2)

If, before the expiry of a take-over bid or after the expiry of a
take-over bid but before the expiry of all rights to withdraw the
securities deposited under the bid, a change has occurred in the
information contained in a director's or officer's circular or any
notice of change in relation to it that would reasonably be expected
to affect the decision of the security holders to accept or reject the
bid, other than a change that is not within the control of the
director or officer, as the case may be, that director or officer must
promptly send a notice of change to every person to whom the take-over
bid was required to be sent under section 2.8.




(3)

A director's or officer's circular must be in the form of Form
62-104F4 Director's or Officer's Circular.




(4)

A director's or officer's obligation to send a circular under
subsection (1) or to send a notice of change under subsection (2) may
be satisfied by sending the circular or the notice of change, as the
case may be, to the board of directors of the offeree issuer.




(5)

If a director or officer sends to the board of directors of the
offeree issuer a circular under subsection (1) or a notice of change
under subsection (2), the board, at the offeree issuer's expense, must
promptly send a copy of the circular or notice to every person to whom
the take-over bid was required to be sent under section 2.8.




(6)

The board of directors of the offeree issuer or the individual
director or officer, as the case may be, must concurrently file the
director's or officer's circular or a notice of change in relation to
it and send it to the principal office of the offeror not later than
the date on which it is sent to the security holders of the offeree
issuer, or as soon as practicable after that.




(7)

A notice of change in relation to a director's or officer's circular
must be in the form of Form 62-104F5 Notice of Change or Notice of
Variation.






Consent of expert â€” directors' circular/individual director's or
officer's circular




2.21


If a report, valuation, statement or opinion of an expert is included
in or accompanies a directors' circular, an individual director's or
officer's circular or any notice of change to either circular, the
written consent of the expert to the use of the report, valuation,
statement or opinion must be filed concurrently with the circular or
notice.






Delivery and date of offeree issuer's documents




2.22

(1)


A directors' circular, an individual director's or officer's circular
and every notice of change must be




(a)

mailed by pre-paid mail to the intended recipient, or




(b)

delivered to the intended recipient by personal delivery, courier or
other manner acceptable to the regulator or securities regulatory
authority.




(2)

Any circular or notice sent in accordance with this section is deemed
to be dated as of the date it was sent to all or substantially all of
the persons entitled to receive it.




Division 4 â€” Offeror's Obligations





Consideration




2.23

(1)


If a take-over bid or an issuer bid is made, all holders of the same
class of securities must be offered identical consideration.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not prohibit an offeror from offering an identical
choice of consideration to all holders of the same class of
securities.




(3)

If a variation in the terms of a take-over bid or an issuer bid before
the expiry of the bid increases the value of the consideration offered
for the securities subject to the bid, the offeror must pay that
increased consideration to each person whose securities are taken up
under the bid, whether or not the securities were taken up by the
offeror before the variation of the bid.






Prohibition against collateral agreements




2.24


If a person makes or intends to make a take-over bid or an issuer bid,
the person or any person acting jointly or in concert with that person
must not enter into any collateral agreement, commitment or
understanding that has the effect, directly or indirectly, of
providing a security holder of the offeree issuer with consideration
of greater value than that offered to the other security holders of
the same class of securities.






Collateral agreements â€” exception




2.25

(1)


Section 2.24 does not apply to an employment compensation arrangement,
severance arrangement or other employment benefit arrangement that
provides




(a)

an enhancement of employee benefits resulting from participation by
the security holder of the offeree issuer in a group plan, other than
an incentive plan, for employees of a successor to the business of the
offeree issuer, if the benefits provided by the group plan are
generally provided to employees of the successor to the business of
the offeree issuer who hold positions of a similar nature to the
position held by the security holder, or




(b)

a benefit not described in paragraph (a) that is received solely in
connection with the security holder's services as an employee,
director or consultant of the offeree issuer, of an affiliated entity
of the offeree issuer, or of a successor to the business of the
offeree issuer, if




(i)

at the time the bid is publicly announced, the security holder and its
associates beneficially own or exercise control or direction over less
than 1% of the outstanding securities of each class of securities of
the offeree issuer subject to the bid, or




(ii)

an independent committee of directors of the offeree issuer, acting in
good faith, has determined that




(A)

the value of the benefit, net of any offsetting costs to the security
holder, is less than 5% of the amount referred to in paragraph 3 (a),
or




(B)

the security holder is providing at least equivalent value in exchange
for the benefit.




(2)

In order to rely on an exception under paragraph (1) (b) the following
conditions must be satisfied:




(a)

the benefit is not conferred for the purpose, in whole or in part, of
increasing the amount of the consideration paid to the security holder
for securities deposited under the bid or providing an incentive to
deposit under the bid;




(b)

the conferring of the benefit is not, by its terms, conditional on the
security holder supporting the bid in any manner; and




(c)

full particulars of the benefit are disclosed in the issuer bid
circular or, in the case of a take-over bid, in the take-over bid
circular or directors' circular.




(3)

In order to rely on an exception under subparagraph 1 (b) (ii) the
following conditions must be satisfied:




(a)

the security holder receiving the benefit has disclosed to the
independent committee the amount of consideration that the security
holder expects it will be beneficially entitled to receive under the
terms of the bid in exchange for the securities beneficially owned by
the security holder; and




(b)

the determination of the independent committee under subparagraph 1
(b) (ii) is disclosed in the issuer bid circular or, in the case of a
take-over bid, in the take-over bid circular or directors' circular.




(4)

In this section, in determining the beneficial ownership of securities
of a holder at a given date, any security or right or obligation
permitting or requiring the security holder or any person acting
jointly or in concert with the security holder, whether or not on
conditions, to acquire a security, including an unissued security, of
a particular class within 60 days by a single transaction or a series
of linked transactions is deemed to be a security of a particular
class.






Proportionate take up and payment




2.26

(1)


If an issuer bid is made for less than all of the class of securities
subject to the bid and a greater number of securities is deposited
under the bid than the offeror is bound or willing to acquire under
the bid, the offeror must take up and pay for the securities
proportionately, disregarding fractions, according to the number of
securities deposited by each security holder.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not prohibit an offeror from acquiring securities
under the terms of an issuer bid that, if not acquired, would
constitute less than a standard trading unit for the security holder.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply to securities deposited under the terms
of an issuer bid by security holders who




(a)

are entitled to elect a minimum price per security, within a range of
prices, at which they are willing to sell their securities under the
bid, and




(b)

elect a minimum price which is higher than the price that the offeror
pays for securities under the bid.




(4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 10 (b).]

[am. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 10.]





Proportionate take up and payment â€” take-over bids




2.26.1

(1)


If a greater number of securities is deposited under a partial
take-over bid than the offeror is bound or willing to acquire under
the bid, the offeror must take up and pay for the securities
proportionately, disregarding fractions, according to the number of
securities deposited by each security holder.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), any securities acquired in a
pre-bid transaction to which subsection 2.4 (1) applies are deemed to
have been deposited under the take-over bid by the person who was the
seller in the pre-bid transaction.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 11.]





Financing arrangements




2.27

(1)


If a take-over bid or an issuer bid provides that the consideration
for the securities deposited under the bid is to be paid in cash or
partly in cash, the offeror must make adequate arrangements before the
bid to ensure that the required funds are available to make full
payment for the securities that the offeror has offered to acquire.




(2)

The financing arrangements required to be made under subsection (1)
may be subject to conditions if, at the time the take-over bid or the
issuer bid is commenced, the offeror reasonably believes the
possibility to be remote that, if the conditions of the bid are
satisfied or waived, the offeror will be unable to pay for the
securities deposited under the bid due to a financing condition not
being satisfied.




Division 5 â€” Bid Mechanics





Minimum deposit period




2.28


An offeror must allow securities to be deposited under an issuer bid
for a minimum deposit period of at least 35 days from the date of the
bid.

[am. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 12.]





Minimum deposit period â€” take-over bids




2.28.1


An offeror must allow securities to be deposited under a take-over bid
for an initial deposit period of at least 105 days from the date of
the bid.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 13.]





Shortened deposit period â€” deposit period news release




2.28.2

(1)


Despite section 2.28.1, if at or after the time an offeror announces a
take-over bid, the offeree issuer issues a deposit period news release
in respect of the offeror's take-over bid, the offeror must allow
securities to be deposited under its take-over bid for an initial
deposit period of at least the number of days from the date of the bid
as stated in the deposit period news release.




(2)

Despite section 2.28.1, an offeror, other than an offeror under
subsection (1), must allow securities to be deposited under its
take-over bid for an initial deposit period of at least the number of
days from the date of the bid as stated in the deposit period news
release if either of the following applies:




(a)

the offeror commenced the take-over bid in respect of securities of
the offeree issuer before the issuance of the deposit period news
release referred to in subsection (1) and the bid has yet to expire;




(b)

the offeror, after the issuance of the deposit period news release
referred to in subsection (1), commences a take-over bid in respect of
securities of the offeree issuer and the bid is commenced before one
of the following:




(i)

the date of expiry of the take-over bid referred to in subsection (1);




(ii)

the date of expiry of another take-over bid referred to in paragraph
(a).




(3)

For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2), an offeror must not allow
securities to be deposited under its take-over bid for an initial
deposit period of less than 35 days from the date of the bid.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 13.]





Shortened deposit period â€” alternative transaction




2.28.3


Despite section 2.28.1, if an issuer issues a news release announcing
that it intends to effect an alternative transaction, whether pursuant
to an agreement or otherwise, an offeror must allow securities to be
deposited under its take-over bid for an initial deposit period of at
least 35 days from the date of the bid if either of the following
applies:




(a)

the offeror commenced the take-over bid in respect of securities of
the offeree issuer before the issuance of the news release and the bid
has yet to expire;




(b)

the offeror, after the issuance of the news release, commences a
take-over bid in respect of securities of the offeree issuer and the
bid is commenced before one of the following:




(i)

the date of completion or abandonment of the alternative transaction;




(ii)

the date of expiry of another take-over bid referred to in paragraph
(a).

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 13.]





Prohibition on take up




2.29


An offeror must not take up securities deposited under an issuer bid
until the expiration of 35 days from the date of the bid.

[am. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 14.]





Restriction on take up â€” take-over bids




2.29.1


An offeror must not take up securities deposited under a take-over bid
unless all of the following apply:




(a)

a period of 105 days, or the number of days determined in accordance
with section 2.28.2 or section 2.28.3, has elapsed from the date of
the bid;




(b)

all the terms and conditions of the bid have been complied with or
waived;




(c)

more than 50% of the outstanding securities of the class that are
subject to the bid, excluding securities beneficially owned, or over
which control or direction is exercised, by the offeror or by any
person acting jointly or in concert with the offeror, have been
deposited under the bid and not withdrawn.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 15.]





Withdrawal of securities




2.30

(1)


A security holder may withdraw securities deposited under a take-over
bid or an issuer bid




(a)

at any time before the securities have been taken up by the offeror,




(b)

at any time before the expiration of 10 days from the date of a notice
of change under section 2.11 or a notice of variation under section
2.12, or




(c)

if the securities have not been paid for by the offeror within 3
business days after the securities have been taken up.




(1.1)

Despite paragraph (1) (a), if an offeror that has made a partial
take-over bid becomes obligated to take up securities under subsection
2.32.1 (1), a security holder must not withdraw securities deposited
before the expiry of the initial deposit period and not taken up by
the offeror in reliance on subsection 2.32.1 (6) during the period




(a)

commencing at the time the offeror became obligated to take up
securities under subsection 2.32.1 (1), and




(b)

ending at the time the offeror becomes obligated under either
subsection 2.32.1 (7) or (8) to take up securities not taken up by the
offeror in reliance on subsection 2.32.1 (6).




(2)

Despite paragraph (1) (b), a security holder must not withdraw
securities deposited if




(a)

the securities have been taken up by the offeror before the date of
the notice of change or notice of variation,




(a.1)

in the case of a partial take-over bid, the securities were deposited
before the expiry of the initial deposit period and not taken up by
the offeror in reliance on subsection 2.32.1 (6) and the date of the
notice of change or notice of variation is after the date that the
offeror became obligated to take up securities under subsection 2.32.1
(1), or




(b)

any of the following apply:




(i)

there is a variation in the terms of a take-over bid or issuer bid
consisting solely of an increase in consideration offered for the
securities and an extension of the time for deposit to not later than
10 days after the date of the notice of variation;




(ii)

there is a variation in the terms of a take-over bid or issuer bid
consisting solely of the waiver of one or more of the conditions of
the bid where the consideration offered for the securities subject to
the take-over bid or the issuer bid consists solely of cash;




(iii)

in the case of a take-over bid, there is a variation in the terms
after the expiry of the initial deposit period consisting of either an
increase in the consideration offered for the securities subject to
the bid or an extension of the time for deposit to not later than 10
days from the date of the notice of variation.




(3)

The withdrawal of any securities under subsection (1) is made by
sending a written notice to the depository designated in the bid
circular and becomes effective on its receipt by the depository.




(4)

If notice is given in accordance with subsection (3), the offeror must
promptly return the securities to the security holder.

[am. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 16.]





Effect of market purchases




2.31


If an offeror purchases securities under subsection 2.2 (3), the
purchased securities must not be counted in determining whether the
minimum tender requirement in paragraph 2.29.1 (c) is satisfied and
the purchase does not reduce the number of securities the offeror is
bound to take up under the take-over bid.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 17.]





Mandatory 10-day extension period â€” take-over bids




2.31.1


If, at the expiry of the initial deposit period, an offeror is
obligated to take up securities deposited under a take-over bid
pursuant to subsection 2.32.1 (1), the offeror must




(a)

extend the period during which securities may be deposited under the
bid for a period of at least 10 days, and




(b)

promptly issue and file a news release disclosing the following:




(i)

that the minimum tender requirement specified in paragraph 2.29.1 (c)
has been satisfied,




(ii)

the number of securities deposited and not withdrawn as at the expiry
of the initial deposit period,




(iii)

that the period during which securities may be deposited under the bid
has been extended for the mandatory 10-day extension period, and




(iv)

in the case of a take-over bid that




(A)

is not a partial take-over bid, that the offeror will immediately take
up the deposited securities and pay for securities taken up as soon as
possible, and in any event not later than 3 business days after the
securities are taken up, or




(B)

is a partial take-over bid, that the offeror will take up and pay for
the deposited securities proportionately in accordance with applicable
securities legislation, and in any event will take up the deposited
securities not later than one business day after the expiry of the
mandatory 10-day extension period, and pay for securities taken up as
soon as possible, and in any event not later than 3 business days
after the securities are taken up.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 18.]





Time limit on extension â€” partial take-over bids




2.31.2


In the case of a partial take-over bid,




(a)

the mandatory 10-day extension period must not exceed 10 days, and




(b)

the bid must not be extended after the expiry of the mandatory 10-day
extension period.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 18.]





Obligation to take up and pay for deposited securities




2.32

(1)


If all the terms and conditions of an issuer bid have been complied
with or waived, the offeror must take up and pay for securities
deposited under the bid not later than 10 days after the expiry of the
bid or at the time required by subsection (2) or (3), whichever is
earliest.




(2)

An offeror must pay for any securities taken up under an issuer bid as
soon as possible, and in any event not later than 3 business days
after securities deposited under the bid are taken up.




(3)

Securities deposited under an issuer bid subsequent to the date on
which the offeror first takes up securities deposited under the bid
must be taken up and paid for by the offeror not later than 10 days
after the deposit of securities.




(4)

An offeror must not extend its issuer bid if all the terms and
conditions of the bid have been complied with or waived, unless the
offeror first takes up all securities deposited under the bid and not
withdrawn.




(5)

Despite subsections (3) and (4), if an issuer bid is made for less
than all of the class of securities subject to the bid, an offeror is
required to take up, by the times specified in those subsections, only
the maximum number of securities that the offeror can take up without
contravening section 2.23 or section 2.26 at the expiry of the bid.




(6)

Despite subsection (4), if the offeror waives any terms or conditions
of an issuer bid and extends the bid in circumstances where the rights
of withdrawal conferred by paragraph 2.30 (1) (b) are applicable, the
bid must be extended without the offeror first taking up the
securities which are subject to the rights of withdrawal.

[am. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 19.]





Obligation to take up and pay for deposited securities â€” take-over
bids




2.32.1

(1)


An offeror must immediately take up securities deposited under a
take-over bid if, at the expiry of the initial deposit period, all of
the following apply:




(a)

the deposit period referred to in section 2.28.1, section 2.28.2 or
section 2.28.3, as applicable, has elapsed;




(b)

all the terms and conditions of the bid have been complied with or
waived;




(c)

the requirement in paragraph 2.29.1 (c) is satisfied.




(2)

An offeror must pay for any securities taken up under a take-over bid
as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 3 business days
after the securities deposited under the bid are taken up.




(3)

In the case of a take-over bid that is not a partial take-over bid,
securities deposited under the bid during the mandatory 10-day
extension period, or an extension period made after the mandatory
10-day extension period, must be taken up and paid for by the offeror
not later than 10 days after the deposit of securities.




(4)

In the case of a take-over bid that is not a partial take-over bid, an
offeror must not extend its bid beyond the expiry of the mandatory
10-day extension period unless the offeror first takes up all
securities deposited under the bid and not withdrawn.




(5)

Despite subsection (4), if the offeror extends the bid in
circumstances where the rights of withdrawal conferred by paragraph
2.30 (1) (b) are applicable, the offeror must extend the bid without
the offeror first taking up the securities which are subject to the
rights of withdrawal.




(6)

Despite subsection (1), an offeror that has made a partial take-over
bid is required to take up, by the time specified in that subsection,
only the maximum number of securities that the offeror can take up
without contravening section 2.23 or section 2.26.1 at the expiry of
the bid.




(7)

In the case of a partial take-over bid, securities deposited before
the expiry of the initial deposit period and not taken up by the
offeror in reliance on subsection (6), and securities deposited during
the mandatory 10-day extension period, must be taken up by the
offeror, in the manner required under section 2.26.1, not later than
one business day after the expiry of the mandatory 10-day extension
period.




(8)

Despite subsection (7), if at the expiry of the mandatory 10-day
extension period rights of withdrawal conferred by paragraph 2.30 (1)
(b) are applicable, securities deposited before the expiry of the
initial deposit period and not taken up by the offeror in reliance on
subsection (6), and securities deposited during the mandatory 10-day
extension period, must be taken up by the offeror, in the manner
required under section 2.26.1, not later than one business day after
the expiry of the withdrawal period conferred by paragraph 2.30 (1)
(b).

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 20.]





Return of deposited securities




2.33


If, following the expiry of a take-over bid or an issuer bid, an
offeror knows that it will not take up securities deposited under the
bid, the offeror must promptly issue and file a news release to that
effect and return the securities to the security holders.






News release on expiry of bid




2.34


If all the terms and conditions of a take-over bid or an issuer bid
have been complied with or waived, the offeror must issue and file a
news release to that effect promptly after the expiry of the bid, and
the news release must disclose




(a)

the approximate number of securities deposited, and




(b)

the approximate number that will be taken up.




Part 3 â€” General





Language of bid documents




3.1

(1)


A person must file a document required under this Instrument in French
or English.




(2)

In QuÃ©bec, a take-over bid circular, issuer bid circular, directors'
circular, director's or officer's circular, notice of change or notice
of variation required under Part 2 must be in French or in French and
English.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply to an exempt take-over bid made under
section 4.4, or an exempt issuer bid made under section 4.10.




(4)

Despite subsection (1), if a person files a document only in French or
English, but delivers to a security holder a version of the document
in the other language, the person must file that other version not
later than when it is first delivered to the security holder.






Filing of documents




3.2

(1)


An offeror making a take-over bid under Part 2 must file copies of the
following documents, and any amendments to those documents:




(a)

any agreement between the offeror and a security holder of the offeree
issuer relating to the take-over bid, including any agreement to the
effect that the security holder will deposit its securities to the
take-over bid made by the offeror;




(b)

any agreement between the offeror and directors or officers of an
offeree issuer relating to the take-over bid;




(c)

any agreement between the offeror and an offeree issuer relating to
the take-over bid;




(d)

any other agreement of which the offeror is aware that could affect
control of the offeree issuer, including any agreement with change of
control provisions, any security holder agreement or any voting trust
agreement, that the offeror has access to and can reasonably be
regarded as material to a security holder in deciding whether to
deposit securities under the bid.




(2)

An offeree issuer whose securities are the subject of a take-over bid
under Part 2 must file copies of any agreement of which the offeree
issuer is aware that could affect control of the offeree issuer,
including an agreement with change of control provisions, a security
holder agreement or a voting trust agreement, that the offeree issuer
has access to and can reasonably be regarded as material to a security
holder in deciding whether to deposit securities under the bid.




(3)

The documents required to be filed




(a)

under subsection (1) must be filed on the day the take-over bid
circular is filed under section 2.10, and




(b)

under subsection (2) must be filed on the day that the directors'
circular is filed under section 2.19.




(4)

If an agreement required to be filed under subsection (1) or (2) is
entered into after a take-over bid circular referred to in subsection
(1) or the directors' circular referred to in subsection (2) is filed,
the agreement must be filed promptly but not later than 2 business
days from the date that the agreement was entered into.




(5)

If a document required to be filed under subsection (1) or (2) has
already been filed in electronic format under National Instrument
13-103

System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval + (SEDAR+)

, the requirement to file the document may be satisfied by filing a
letter describing the document and stating the filing date and project
number.




(6)

A document dated before March 30, 2004 that is required to be filed
under subsection (1) or (2) may be filed in paper format if it does
not exist electronically under National Instrument 13-103

System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval + (SEDAR+)

.




(7)

A provision in a document required to be filed under subsection (1) or
(2) may be omitted or marked so as to be unreadable if




(a)

the filer has reasonable grounds to believe that disclosure of the
provision would be seriously prejudicial to the interests of the filer
or would violate confidentiality provisions,




(b)

the provision does not contain information relating to the filer or
its securities that would be necessary to understand the document, and




(c)

in the copy of the document filed by the filer, the filer includes a
brief description of the information that has been omitted or marked
so as to be unreadable immediately after the provision that has been
omitted or marked.

[am. B.C. Reg. 140/2023, Sch. E, ss. 2 and 3.]





Certification of bid circulars




3.3

(1)


A bid circular or a notice of change or notice of variation in respect
of the bid circular required under this Instrument must contain a
certificate of the offeror in the required form signed




(a)

if the offeror is a person other than an individual, by each of the
following:




(i)

the chief executive officer or, in the case of a person that does not
have a chief executive officer, the individual who performs similar
functions to a chief executive officer,




(ii)

the chief financial officer or, in the case of a person that does not
have a chief financial officer, the individual who performs similar
functions to a chief financial officer, and




(iii)

2 directors, other than the chief executive officer and the chief
financial officer, who are duly authorized by the board of directors
of that person to sign on behalf of the board of directors, or




(b)

if the offeror is an individual, by the individual.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (a), if the offeror has fewer than
4 directors and officers, the certificate must be signed by all of the
directors and officers.




(3)

A directors' circular or a notice of change in respect of a directors'
circular required under this Instrument must contain a certificate of
the board of directors of the offeree issuer in the required form
signed by 2 directors who are duly authorized by the board of
directors of that person to sign on behalf of the board of directors.




(4)

Every person that files and sends an individual director's or
officer's circular or a notice of change in respect of an individual
director's or officer's circular under this Instrument must ensure
that the circular or notice contains a certificate in the required
form and signed by or on behalf of the director or officer sending the
circular or notice.




(5)

If the regulator or securities regulatory authority is satisfied that
either or both of the chief executive officer or chief financial
officer cannot sign a certificate required under this Instrument, the
regulator or securities regulatory authority may accept a certificate
signed by another officer or director.






Obligation to provide security holder list




3.4

(1)


If a person makes or proposes to make a take-over bid under Part 2 for
a class of securities of an issuer that is not otherwise required by
law to provide a list of its security holders to the person, the
issuer must provide a list of holders of that class of securities, and
any known holder of an option or right to acquire securities of that
class, to enable the person to carry out the bid in compliance with
this Instrument.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), section 21 of the

Canada Business Corporations Act

applies with necessary modifications to the person making or proposing
to make the take-over bid and to the issuer, except that the affidavit
that accompanies the request for the list of security holders must
state that the list will not be used except in connection with a bid
made under Part 2 for securities of the issuer.




Part 4 â€” Exemptions



Division 1 â€” Exempt Take-Over Bids





Normal course purchase exemption




4.1


A take-over bid is exempt from Part 2 if all of the following
conditions are satisfied:




(a)

the bid is for not more than 5% of the outstanding securities of a
class of securities of the offeree issuer;




(b)

the aggregate number of securities acquired in reliance on this
exemption by the offeror and any person acting jointly or in concert
with the offeror within any period of 12 months, when aggregated with
acquisitions otherwise made by the offeror and any person acting
jointly or in concert with the offeror within the same 12-month
period, other than under a bid that is subject to Part 2, does not
exceed 5% of the securities of that class outstanding at the beginning
of the 12-month period;




(c)

there is a published market for the class of securities that are the
subject of the bid;




(d)

the value of the consideration paid for any of the securities acquired
is not in excess of the market price at the date of acquisition, as
determined in accordance with section 1.11, plus reasonable brokerage
fees or commissions actually paid.






Private agreement exemption




4.2

(1)


A take-over bid is exempt from Part 2 if all of the following
conditions are satisfied:




(a)

purchases are made from not more than 5 persons in the aggregate,
including persons located outside the local jurisdiction;




(b)

the bid is not made generally to security holders of the class of
securities that is the subject of the bid, so long as there are more
than 5 security holders of the class;




(c)

if there is a published market for the securities acquired, the value
of the consideration paid for any of the securities, including
brokerage fees or commissions, is not greater than 115% of the market
price of the securities at the date of the bid as determined in
accordance with section 1.11;




(d)

if there is no published market for the securities acquired, there is
a reasonable basis for determining that the value of the consideration
paid for any of the securities is not greater than 115% of the value
of the securities.




(2)

In subsection (1), if an offeror makes an offer to acquire securities
from a person and the offeror knows or ought to know after reasonable
enquiry that




(a)

the person acquired the securities in order that the offeror might
make use of the exemption under subsection (1), then each person from
whom those securities were acquired must be included in the
determination of the number of persons to whom an offer to acquire has
been made, or




(b)

the person from whom the acquisition is being made is acting as a
nominee, agent, trustee, executor, administrator or other legal
representative for one or more other persons having a direct
beneficial interest in those securities, then each of those other
persons must be included in the determination of the number of persons
to whom an offer to acquire has been made.




(3)

Despite paragraph (2) (b), a trust or estate is to be considered a
single security holder in the determination of the number of persons
to whom an offer to acquire has been made if




(a)

an inter vivos trust has been established by a single settlor, or




(b)

an estate has not vested in all persons who are beneficially entitled
to it.






Non-reporting issuer exemption




4.3


A take-over bid is exempt from Part 2 if all of the following
conditions are satisfied:




(a)

the offeree issuer is not a reporting issuer;




(b)

there is no published market for the securities that are the subject
of the bid;




(c)

the number of security holders of that class of securities at the
commencement of the bid is not more than 50, exclusive of holders who




(i)

are in the employment of the offeree issuer or an affiliate of the
offeree issuer, or




(ii)

were formerly in the employment of the offeree issuer or in the
employment of an entity that was an affiliate of the offeree issuer at
the time of that employment, and who while in that employment were,
and have continued after that employment to be, security holders of
the offeree issuer.






Foreign take-over bid exemption




4.4


A take-over bid is exempt from Part 2 if all of the following
conditions are satisfied:




(a)

security holders whose last address as shown on the books of the
offeree issuer is in Canada hold less than 10% of the outstanding
securities of the class subject to the bid at the commencement of the
bid;




(b)

the offeror reasonably believes that security holders in Canada
beneficially own less than 10% of the outstanding securities of the
class subject to the bid at the commencement of the bid;




(c)

the published market on which the greatest volume of trading in
securities of that class occurred during the 12 months immediately
preceding the commencement of the bid was not in Canada;




(d)

security holders in the local jurisdiction are entitled to participate
in the bid on terms at least as favourable as the terms that apply to
the general body of security holders of the same class;




(e)

at the same time as material relating to the bid is sent by or on
behalf of the offeror to security holders of the class that is subject
to the bid, the material is filed and sent to security holders whose
last address as shown on the books of the offeree issuer is in the
local jurisdiction;




(f)

if the bid materials referred to in paragraph (e) are not in English,
a brief summary of the key terms of the bid prepared in English, and
in QuÃ©bec in French or French and English, is filed and sent to
security holders whose last address as shown on the books of the
offeree issuer is in the local jurisdiction at the same time as the
bid materials are filed and sent;




(g)

if no material relating to the bid is sent by or on behalf of the
offeror to security holders of the class that is subject to the bid
but a notice or advertisement of the bid is published by or on behalf
of the offeror in the jurisdiction where the offeree issuer is
incorporated or organized, an advertisement of the bid specifying
where and how security holders may obtain a copy of, or access to, the
bid documents is filed and published in English, and in QuÃ©bec in
French or French and English, in at least one major daily newspaper of
general and regular paid circulation in the local jurisdiction.






De minimis
exemption




4.5


A take-over bid is exempt from Part 2 if all of the following
conditions are satisfied:




(a)

the number of beneficial owners of securities of the class subject to
the bid in the local jurisdiction is fewer than 50;




(b)

the securities held by the beneficial owners referred to in paragraph
(a) constitute, in aggregate, less than 2% of the outstanding
securities of that class;




(c)

security holders in the local jurisdiction are entitled to participate
in the bid on terms at least as favourable as the terms that apply to
the general body of security holders of the same class;




(d)

at the same time as material relating to the bid is sent by or on
behalf of the offeror to security holders of the class that is subject
to the bid, the material is filed and sent to security holders whose
last address as shown on the books of the offeree issuer is in the
local jurisdiction.




Division 2 â€” Exempt Issuer Bids





Issuer acquisition or redemption exemption




4.6


An issuer bid for a class of securities is exempt from Part 2 if any
of the following conditions are satisfied:




(a)

the securities are purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired in
accordance with the terms and conditions attaching to the class of
securities that permit the purchase, redemption or acquisition of the
securities by the issuer without the prior agreement of the owners of
the securities, or the securities are acquired to meet sinking fund or
purchase fund requirements;




(b)

the purchase, redemption or other acquisition is required by the terms
and conditions attaching to the class of securities or by the statute
under which the issuer was incorporated, organized or continued;




(c)

the terms and conditions attaching to the class of securities contain
a right of the owner to require the issuer of the securities to
redeem, repurchase, or otherwise acquire the securities, and the
securities are acquired under the exercise of the right.






Employee, executive officer, director and consultant exemption




4.7


An issuer bid is exempt from Part 2 if the securities are acquired
from a current or former employee, executive officer, director or
consultant of the issuer or of an affiliate of the issuer and, if
there is a published market in respect of the securities,




(a)

the value of the consideration paid for any of the securities acquired
is not greater than the market price of the securities at the date of
the acquisition, determined in accordance with section 1.11, and




(b)

the aggregate number of securities or, in the case of convertible debt
securities, the aggregate principal amount of securities acquired by
the issuer within any period of 12 months in reliance on the exemption
provided by this paragraph does not exceed 5% of the securities of
that class outstanding at the beginning of the 12-month period.






Normal course issuer bid exemptions




4.8

(1)


In this section,
"designated exchange"
means the Toronto Stock Exchange, the TSX Venture Exchange or other
exchange recognized or designated by the securities regulatory
authorities for the purpose of this Instrument.




(2)

An issuer bid that is made in the normal course through the facilities
of a designated exchange is exempt from Part 2 if the bid is made in
accordance with the bylaws, rules, regulations and policies of that
exchange.




(3)

An issuer bid that is made in the normal course on a published market,
other than a designated exchange, is exempt from Part 2 if all of the
following conditions are satisfied:




(a)

the bid is for not more than 5% of the outstanding securities of a
class of securities of the issuer;




(b)

the aggregate number of securities or, in the case of convertible debt
securities, the aggregate principal amount of securities acquired in
reliance on this exemption by the issuer and any person acting jointly
or in concert with the issuer within any 12-month period does not
exceed 5% of the securities of that class outstanding at the beginning
of the 12-month period;




(c)

the value of the consideration paid for any of the securities acquired
is not in excess of the market price at the date of acquisition as
determined in accordance with section 1.11, plus reasonable brokerage
fees or commissions actually paid.




(4)

An issuer making a bid under subsection (2) must promptly file any
news release required to be issued by the designated exchange.




(5)

An issuer making a bid under subsection (3) must issue and file, at
least 5 days before the commencement of the bid, a news release
containing the following information:




(a)

the class and number of securities or principal amount of debt
securities sought;




(b)

the dates, if known, on which the issuer bid will commence and expire;




(c)

the value, in Canadian dollars, of the consideration offered per
security;




(d)

the manner in which the securities will be acquired; and




(e)

the reasons for the issuer bid.






Non-reporting issuer exemption




4.9


An issuer bid is exempt from Part 2 if all of the following conditions
are satisfied:




(a)

the issuer is not a reporting issuer;




(b)

there is no published market for the securities that are the subject
of the bid;




(c)

the number of security holders of that class of securities at the
commencement of the bid is not more than 50, exclusive of holders who




(i)

are in the employment of the issuer or an affiliate of the issuer, or




(ii)

were formerly in the employment of the issuer or in the employment of
an entity that was an affiliate of the issuer at the time of that
employment, and who while in that employment were, and have continued
after the employment to be, security holders of the issuer.






Foreign issuer bid exemption




4.10


An issuer bid is exempt from Part 2 if all of the following conditions
are satisfied:




(a)

security holders whose last address as shown on the books of the
offeree issuer is in Canada hold less than 10% of the outstanding
securities of the class subject to the bid at the commencement of the
bid;




(b)

the offeror reasonably believes that security holders in Canada
beneficially own less than 10% of the outstanding securities of the
class subject to the bid at the commencement of the bid;




(c)

the published market on which the greatest volume of trading in
securities of that class occurred during the 12 months immediately
preceding the commencement of the bid was not in Canada;




(d)

security holders in the local jurisdiction are entitled to participate
in the bid on terms at least as favourable as the terms that apply to
the general body of security holders of the same class;




(e)

at the same time as material relating to the bid is sent by or on
behalf of the offeror to security holders of the class that is subject
to the bid, the material is filed and sent to security holders whose
last address as shown on the books of the offeree issuer is in the
local jurisdiction;




(f)

if the bid materials referred to in paragraph (e) are not in English,
a brief summary of the key terms of the bid prepared in English, and
in QuÃ©bec in French or French and English, is filed and sent to
security holders whose last address as shown on the books of the
offeree issuer is in the local jurisdiction at the same time as the
bid materials are filed and sent;




(g)

if no material relating to the bid is sent by or on behalf of the
offeror to security holders of the class that is subject to the bid
but a notice or advertisement of the bid is published by or on behalf
of the offeror in the jurisdiction where the offeree issuer is
incorporated or organized, an advertisement of the bid specifying
where and how security holders may obtain a copy of, or access to, the
bid documents is filed and published in English, and in QuÃ©bec in
French or French and English, in at least one major daily newspaper of
general and regular paid circulation in the local jurisdiction.






De minimis
exemption




4.11


An issuer bid is exempt from the requirements of Part 2 if all of the
following conditions are satisfied:




(a)

the number of beneficial owners of the class of securities subject to
the bid in the local jurisdiction is fewer than 50;




(b)

the securities held by the beneficial owners referred to in paragraph
(a) constitute, in aggregate, less than 2% of the outstanding
securities of that class;




(c)

security holders in the local jurisdiction are entitled to participate
in the bid on terms at least as favourable as the terms that apply to
the general body of security holders of the same class;




(d)

at the same time as material relating to the bid is sent by or on
behalf of the offeror to security holders of the class that is subject
to the bid, the material is filed and sent to security holders whose
last address as shown on the books of the offeree issuer is in the
local jurisdiction.




Part 5 â€” Reports and Announcements of Acquisitions





Definitions and interpretation




5.1

(1)


In this Part,


"acquiror"
means a person who acquires a security, other than by way of a
take-over bid or an issuer bid made in compliance with Part 2;



"acquiror's securities"

means securities of an issuer beneficially owned, or over which
control or direction is exercised, on the date of the acquisition or
disposition, by an acquiror or any person acting jointly or in concert
with the acquiror;



"securities lending arrangement"

means an arrangement between a lender and a borrower with respect to
which both of the following apply:




(a)

the lender transfers or lends a security to the borrower;




(b)

at the time that the security is lent or transferred, the lender and
the borrower reasonably expect that the borrower will, at a later
date, transfer or return to the lender the security or an identical
security.



"specified securities lending arrangement"

means a securities lending arrangement if all of the following apply:




(a)

the material terms of the securities lending arrangement are set out
in a written agreement;




(b)

the securities lending arrangement requires the borrower to pay to the
lender amounts equal to all dividends or interest payments, if any,
paid on the security that would have been received by the lender if
the lender had held the security throughout the period beginning at
the date of the transfer or loan and ending at the time the security
or an identical security is transferred or returned to the lender;




(c)

the lender has established policies and procedures that require the
lender to maintain a record of all securities that it has transferred
or lent under securities lending arrangements;




(d)

the written agreement referred to in paragraph (a) provides for any of
the following:




(i)

the lender has an unrestricted right to recall all securities that it
has transferred or lent under the securities lending arrangement, or
an equal number of identical securities, before the record date for
voting at any meeting of securityholders at which the securities may
be voted;




(ii)

the lender requires the borrower to vote the securities transferred or
lent in accordance with the lender's instructions;




(2)

For the purposes of this Part, if an acquiror and one or more persons
acting jointly or in concert with the acquiror acquire or dispose of
securities, the securities are deemed to be acquired or disposed of,
as applicable, by the acquiror.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 21.]





Early warning




5.2

(1)


An acquiror who acquires beneficial ownership of, or control or
direction over, voting or equity securities of any class of a
reporting issuer, or securities convertible into voting or equity
securities of any class of a reporting issuer, that, together with the
acquiror's securities of that class, constitute 10% or more of the
outstanding securities of that class, must




(a)

promptly, and, in any event, no later than the opening of trading on
the business day following the acquisition, issue and file a news
release containing the information required by section 3.1 of National
Instrument 62-103

The Early Warning System and Related Take-Over Bid and Insider
Reporting Issues

, and




(b)

promptly, and, in any event, no later than 2 business days from the
date of the acquisition, file a report containing the information
required by section 3.1 of National Instrument 62-103

The Early Warning System and Related Take-Over Bid and Insider
Reporting Issues

.




(2)

An acquiror who is required to make disclosure under subsection (1)
must make further disclosure, in accordance with subsection (1), each
time any of the following events occur:




(a)

the acquiror or any person acting jointly or in concert with the
acquiror, acquires or disposes beneficial ownership of, or acquires or
ceases to have control or direction over, either of the following:




(i)

securities in an amount equal to 2% or more of the outstanding
securities of the class of securities that was the subject of the most
recent report required to be filed by the acquiror under subsection
(1) or under this subsection;




(ii)

securities convertible into 2% or more of the outstanding securities
referred to in subparagraph (i);




(b)

there is a change in a material fact contained in the most recent
report required to be filed under paragraph (1) (b) or under paragraph
(a) of this subsection.




(3)

An acquiror must issue and file a news release and file a report in
accordance with subsection (1) if beneficial ownership of, or control
or direction over, the outstanding securities of the class of
securities that was the subject of the most recent report required to
be filed by the acquiror under this section decreases to less than
10%.




(4)

If an acquiror issues and files a news release and files a report
under subsection (3), the requirements under subsection (2) do not
apply unless subsection (1) applies in respect of a subsequent
acquisition of beneficial ownership of, or control or direction over,
voting or equity securities of any class of a reporting issuer, or
securities convertible into voting or equity securities of any class
of a reporting issuer, that, together with the acquiror's securities
of that class, constitute 10% or more of the outstanding securities of
that class.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 21.]





Moratorium provisions




5.3

(1)


During the period beginning on the occurrence of an event in respect
of which a report is required to be filed under section 5.2 and ending
on the expiry of the first business day following the date that the
report is filed, an acquiror, or any person acting jointly or in
concert with the acquiror, must not acquire or offer to acquire
beneficial ownership of, or control or direction over, any securities
of the class in respect of which the report is required to be filed or
any securities convertible into securities of that class.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to an acquiror that has beneficial
ownership of, or control or direction over, securities that, together
with the acquiror's securities of that class, constitute 20% or more
of the outstanding securities of that class.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 21.]





Acquisitions during bid




5.4

(1)


If, after a take-over bid or an issuer bid has been made under Part 2
for voting or equity securities of a reporting issuer and before the
expiry of the bid, an acquiror acquires beneficial ownership of, or
control or direction over, securities of the class subject to the bid
which, when added to the acquiror's securities of that class,
constitute 5% or more of the outstanding securities of that class, the
acquiror must, before the opening of trading on the next business day,
issue and file a news release containing the information required by
subsection (3).




(2)

An acquiror must issue and file an additional news release in
accordance with subsection (3) before the opening of trading on the
next business day each time the acquiror, or any person acting jointly
or in concert with the acquiror, acquires beneficial ownership of, or
control or direction over, in aggregate, an additional 2% or more of
the outstanding securities of the class of securities that was the
subject of the most recent news release required to be filed by the
acquiror under this section.




(3)

A news release or further news release required under subsection (1)
or (2) must set out




(a)

the name of the acquiror,




(b)

the number of securities of the offeree issuer that were beneficially
acquired, or over which control or direction was acquired, in the
transaction that gave rise to the requirement under subsection (1) or
(2) to issue the news release,




(c)

the number of securities and the percentage of outstanding securities
of the offeree issuer that the acquiror and all persons acting jointly
or in concert with the acquiror, have beneficial ownership of, or
control or direction over, immediately after the acquisition described
in paragraph (b),




(d)

the number of securities of the offeree issuer that were beneficially
acquired, or over which control or direction was acquired, by the
acquiror and all persons acting jointly or in concert with the
acquiror, since the commencement of the bid,




(e)

the name of the market in which the acquisition described in paragraph
(b) took place, and




(f)

the purpose of the acquiror and all persons acting jointly or in
concert with the acquiror in making the acquisition described in
paragraph (b), including any intention of the acquiror and all persons
acting jointly or in concert with the acquiror to increase the
beneficial ownership of, or control or direction over, any of the
securities of the offeree issuer.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 21.]





Duplicate news release not required




5.5


If the facts in respect of which a news release is required to be
filed under sections 5.2 and 5.4 are identical, a news release is
required only under the provision requiring the earlier news release.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 21.]





Copies of news release and report




5.6


An acquiror that files a news release or report under section 5.2 or
5.4 must promptly send a copy of each filing to the reporting issuer.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 21.]





Exception




5.7


Sections 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 do not apply to either of the following:




(a)

an acquiror that is a lender in respect of securities transferred or
lent pursuant to a specified securities lending arrangement;




(b)

an acquiror that is a borrower in respect of securities or identical
securities borrowed, disposed of or acquired in connection with a
securities lending arrangement if all of the following apply:




(i)

the borrowed securities are disposed of by the borrower no later than
3 business days from the date of the transfer or loan;




(ii)

the borrower will at a later date acquire the securities or identical
securities and transfer or return those securities to the lender;




(iii)

the borrower does not intend to vote and does not vote the securities
or identical securities during the period beginning on the date of the
transfer or loan and ending at the time the securities or identical
securities are transferred or returned to the lender.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 21.]



Part 6 â€” Exemptions





Exemption â€” general




6.1

(1)


The regulator or the securities regulatory authority may grant an
exemption from the provisions of this Instrument, in whole or in part,
subject to such conditions or restrictions as may be imposed in the
exemption.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), in Ontario, only the regulator may grant such
an exemption.




(3)

Except in Alberta and Ontario, an exemption referred to in subsection
(1) is granted under the statute referred to in Appendix B of National
Instrument 14-101
Definitions
opposite the name of the local jurisdiction.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 22.]





Exemption â€” collateral benefit




6.2

(1)


The regulator or the securities regulatory authority may decide for
the purposes of section 2.24 that an agreement, commitment or
understanding with a selling security holder is made for reasons other
than to increase the value of the consideration paid to a selling
security holder for the securities of the selling security holder and
that the agreement, commitment or understanding may be entered into
despite that section.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), in Ontario, only the regulator may make such a
decision.

[am. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 23.]



Part 7 â€” Transition and Coming into Force





Transition




7.1


The take-over bid or issuer bid provisions in securities legislation
that were in force immediately before the effective date of this
Instrument, continue to apply in respect of every take-over bid and
issuer bid commenced before the effective date of this Instrument.






Coming into force




7.2


This Instrument comes into force on February 1, 2008.






Transition




7.3


The take-over bid or issuer bid provisions in securities legislation
that were in force immediately before May 9, 2016 continue to apply in
respect of




(a)

every take-over bid and issuer bid commenced, but not completed,
before May 9, 2016,




(b)

any take-over bid, in respect of the securities of an offeree issuer
subject to a take-over bid referred to in paragraph (a), commenced on
or subsequent to May 9, 2016 but prior to the date of the expiry of a
take-over bid referred to in paragraph (a), and




(c)

any take-over bid, in respect of the securities of an issuer that
issued a news release before May 9, 2016 announcing that it intends to
effect an alternative transaction whether pursuant to an agreement or
otherwise, commenced on or subsequent to May 9, 2016 but prior to the
date of completion or abandonment of the alternative transaction.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 24.]



Form 62-104F1


[am. B.C. Regs. 106/2016, Sch. B, ss. 25 and 26; 140/2023, Sch. E, s.
4.]


Take-Over Bid Circular


Part 1 â€” General Provisions


(a) Defined terms


If a term is used but not defined in this Form, refer to Part 1 of
National Instrument 62-104
Take-Over Bids and Issuer Bids
(the Instrument) and to National Instrument 14-101
Definitions
.



(b) Incorporating information by reference


If you are qualified to file a short form prospectus under sections 2.2
to 2.7 of National Instrument 44-101
Short Form Prospectus Distributions
, or by reason of an exemption granted by a securities regulatory
authority, you may incorporate information required under item 19 to be
included in your take-over bid circular by reference to another
document. Clearly identify the referenced document or any excerpt of it
that you incorporate into your take-over bid circular. Unless you have
already filed the referenced document, you must file it with your
take-over bid circular. You must also disclose that the document is on
SEDAR+ at
www.sedarplus.com
and that, on request, you will promptly provide a copy of the document
free of charge to a security holder of the offeree issuer.



(c) Plain language


Write the take-over bid circular so that readers are able to understand
it and make informed investment decisions. Offerors should apply plain
language principles when they prepare a take-over bid circular
including:

â€¢ using short sentences;
â€¢ using definite everyday language;
â€¢ using the active voice;
â€¢ avoiding superfluous words;

â€¢ organizing the document into clear, concise sections, paragraphs and
sentences;

â€¢ avoiding jargon;

â€¢ using personal pronouns to speak directly to the reader;


â€¢ avoiding reliance on glossaries and defined terms unless it
facilitates understanding of the disclosure;

â€¢ avoiding vague boilerplate wording;

â€¢ avoiding abstract terms by using more concrete terms or examples;

â€¢ avoiding multiple negatives;

â€¢ using technical terms only when necessary and explaining those terms;


â€¢ using charts, tables and examples where it makes disclosure easier to
understand.


If you use technical terms, explain them in a clear and concise manner.



(d) Numbering and headings


The numbering, headings and ordering of items included in this Form are
guidelines only. You do not need to include the heading or numbering or
follow the order of items in this Form. You do not need to refer to
inapplicable items and, unless otherwise required in this Form, you may
omit negative answers to items. Disclosure provided in response to any
item need not be repeated elsewhere in the circular.



Part 2 â€” Contents of Take-Over Bid Circular



Item 1. Name and description of offeror


State the corporate name of the offeror or, if the offeror is an
unincorporated entity, the full name under which it exists and carries
on business, and give a brief description of its activities.



Item 2. Name of offeree issuer


State the corporate name of the offeree issuer or, if the offeree issuer
is an unincorporated entity, the full name under which it exists and
carries on business.



Item 3. Securities subject to the bid


State the class and number of securities that are the subject of the
take-over bid and a description of the rights of the holders of any
other class of securities that have a right to participate in the offer.



Item 4. Time period


State the dates on which the take-over bid will commence and expire.



Item 5. Consideration


State the consideration to be offered. If the consideration includes
securities, state the particulars of the designation, rights,
privileges, restrictions and conditions attaching to those securities.



Item 6. Ownership of securities of offeree issuer


State the number, designation and percentage of the outstanding
securities of any class of securities of the offeree issuer beneficially
owned or over which control or direction is exercised

(a) by the offeror,

(b) by each director and officer of the offeror, and

(c) if known after reasonable enquiry, by

(i) each associate or affiliate of an insider of the offeror,


(ii) an insider of the offeror, other than a director or officer of the
offeror, and


(iii) any person acting jointly or in concert with the offeror.


In each case where no securities are owned, directed or controlled,
state this fact.



Item 7. Trading in securities of offeree issuer


State, if known after reasonable enquiry, the following information
about any securities of the offeree issuer purchased or sold by the
persons referred to in item 6 during the 6-month period preceding the
date of the take-over bid:

(a) the description of the security;
(b) the number of securities purchased or sold;
(c) the purchase or sale price of the security;
(d) the date of the transaction.

If no such securities were purchased or sold, state this fact.




Item 8. Commitments to acquire securities of offeree issuer



Disclose all agreements, commitments or understandings made by the
offeror, and, if known after reasonable enquiry, by the persons referred
to in item 6 to acquire securities of the offeree issuer, and the terms
and conditions of those agreements, commitments or understandings.



Item 9. Terms and conditions of the bid


State the terms of the take-over bid. If the obligation of the offeror
to take up and pay for securities under the take-over bid is
conditional, state the particulars of each condition.




Item 9.1. Minimum tender requirement and mandatory extension period



State the following in italics and boldface type at the top of the cover
page of the take-over bid circular:



No securities tendered to this bid will be taken up until (a) more
than 50% of the outstanding securities of the class sought (excluding
those securities beneficially owned, or over which control or
direction is exercised by the offeror or any person acting jointly or
in concert with the offeror) have been tendered to the bid, (b) the
minimum deposit period required under applicable securities laws has
elapsed, and (c) any and all other conditions of the bid have been
complied with or waived, as applicable. If these criteria are met, the
offeror will take up securities deposited under the bid in accordance
with applicable securities laws and extend its bid for an additional
minimum period of 10 days to allow for further deposits of securities.




Item 10. Payment for deposited securities


State the particulars of the method and time of payment of the
consideration.



Item 11. Right to withdraw deposited securities


Describe the withdrawal rights of the security holders of the offeree
issuer under the take-over bid. State that the withdrawal is made by
sending a written notice to the designated depository and becomes
effective on its receipt by the depository.



Item 12. Source of funds


State the source of any funds to be used for payment of deposited
securities. If the funds are to be borrowed, state

(a) the name of the lender,

(b) the terms and financing conditions of the loan,


(c) the circumstances under which the loan must be repaid, and

(d) the proposed method of repayment.


Item 13. Trading in securities to be acquired

Provide a summary showing

(a) the name of each principal market on which the securities sought are
traded,


(b) any change in a principal market that is planned following the
take-over bid, including but not limited to listing or de-listing on an
exchange,


(c) where reasonably ascertainable, in reasonable detail, the volume of
trading and price range of the class of the securities in the 6-month
period preceding the date of the take-over bid, or, in the case of debt
securities, the prices quoted on each principal market, and


(d) the date that the take-over bid to which the circular relates was
announced to the public and the market price of the securities
immediately before that announcement.




Item 14. Arrangements between the offeror and the directors and
officers of offeree issuer



Disclose the particulars of any agreement, commitment or understanding
made or proposed to be made between the offeror and any of the directors
or officers of the offeree issuer, including particulars of any payment
or other benefit proposed to be made or given by way of compensation for
loss of office or their remaining in or retiring from office if the
take-over bid is successful.




Item 15. Arrangements between the offeror and security holders of
offeree issuer



(1) Disclose the particulars of any agreement, commitment or
understanding made or proposed to be made between the offeror and a
security holder of the offeree issuer relating to the bid, including a
description of its purpose, its date, the identity of the parties, and
its terms and conditions. Disclosure with respect to each agreement,
commitment or understanding, other than an agreement that a security
holder will tender securities to a take-over bid made by the offeror,
must include


(a) a detailed explanation as to how the offeror determined entering
into it was not prohibited by section 2.24 of the Instrument, or


(b) disclosure of the exception to, or exemption from, the prohibition
against collateral agreements relied on by the offeror and the facts
supporting that reliance.


(2) If the offeror is relying on an exception to the prohibition against
collateral agreements under subparagraph 2.25 (1) (b) (ii) of the
Instrument, and if the information is available to the offeror, disclose
the review process undertaken by the independent committee of directors
of the issuer and the basis on which the independent committee made its
determination under clause 2.25 (1) (b) (ii) (A) or (B) of the
Instrument.




Item 16. Arrangements with or relating to the offeree issuer



Disclose the particulars of any agreement, commitment or understanding
made between the offeror and the offeree issuer relating to the
take-over bid and any other agreement, commitment or understanding of
which the offeror is aware that could affect control of the offeree
issuer, including an agreement with change of control provisions, a
security holder agreement or a voting trust agreement that the offeror
has access to and that can reasonably be regarded as material to a
security holder in deciding whether to deposit securities under the bid.



Item 17. Purpose of the bid


State the purpose of the take-over bid. Disclose the particulars of any
plans or proposals for


(a) subsequent transactions involving the offeree issuer such as a going
private transaction, or


(b) material changes in the affairs of the offeree issuer, including,
for example, any proposal to liquidate the offeree issuer, to sell,
lease or exchange all or a substantial part of its assets, to amalgamate
it with any other business organization or to make any material changes
in its business, corporate structure (debt or equity), management or
personnel.



Item 18. Valuation


If the take-over bid is an insider bid, as defined in applicable
securities legislation, include the disclosure regarding valuations
required by securities legislation.




Item 19. Securities of an offeror or other issuer to be exchanged for
securities of offeree issuer



(1) If a take-over bid provides that the consideration for the
securities of the offeree issuer is to be, in whole or in part,
securities of the offeror or other issuer, include the financial
statements and other information required in a prospectus of the issuer
whose securities are being offered in exchange for the securities of the
offeree issuer.


(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), provide the pro forma financial
statements that would be required in a prospectus assuming that


(a) the likelihood of the offeror completing the acquisition of
securities of the offeree issuer is high, and


(b) the acquisition is a significant acquisition for the offeror.


(3) Despite subsection (1), the financial statements of the offeree
issuer are not required to be included in the circular.



Item 20. Right of appraisal and acquisition


State any rights of appraisal the security holders of the offeree issuer
have under the laws or constating document governing, or contracts
binding, the offeree issuer and state whether or not the offeror intends
to exercise any right of acquisition the offeror may have.



Item 21. Market purchases of securities


State whether or not the offeror intends to purchase in the market
securities that are the subject of the take-over bid.



Item 22. Approval of take-over bid circular


If the take-over bid is made by or on behalf of an offeror that has
directors, state that the take-over bid circular has been approved and
its sending has been authorized by the directors.



Item 23. Other material facts

Describe

(a) any material facts concerning the securities of the offeree issuer,
and


(b) any other matter not disclosed in the take-over bid circular that
has not previously been generally disclosed, is known to the offeror,
and that would reasonably be expected to affect the decision of the
security holders of the offeree issuer to accept or reject the offer.



Item 24. Solicitations


Disclose any person retained by or on behalf of the offeror to make
solicitations in respect of the take-over bid and the particulars of the
compensation arrangements.



Item 25. Statement of rights


Include the following statement of rights provided under the securities
legislation of the jurisdictions relating to this circular:


Securities legislation in the provinces and territories of Canada
provides security holders of the offeree issuer with, in addition to any
other rights they may have at law, one or more rights of rescission,
price revision or to damages, if there is a misrepresentation in a
circular or notice that is required to be delivered to those security
holders. However, such rights must be exercised within prescribed time
limits. Security holders should refer to the applicable provisions of
the securities legislation of their province or territory for
particulars of those rights or consult a lawyer.



Item 26. Certificate


A take-over bid circular certificate form must state:


The foregoing contains no untrue statement of a material fact and does
not omit to state a material fact that is required to be stated or that
is necessary to make a statement not misleading in the light of the
circumstances in which it was made.



Item 27. Date of take-over bid circular

Specify the date of the take-over bid circular.


Form 62-104F2


[am. B.C. Regs. 383/2010, Sch. F, s. 1; 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 27;
140/2023, Sch. E, s. 5.]


Issuer Bid Circular


Part 1 â€” General Provisions



(a) Defined terms


If a term is used but not defined in this Form, refer to Part 1 of
National Instrument 62-104
Take-Over Bids and Issuer Bids
(the Instrument) and to National Instrument 14-101
Definitions
.



(b) Incorporating information by reference


If you are qualified to file a short form prospectus under sections 2.2
to 2.7 of National Instrument 44-101
Short Form Prospectus Distributions
, or by reason of an exemption granted by a securities regulatory
authority, you may incorporate information required under item 21 to be
included in your issuer bid circular by reference to another document.
Clearly identify the referenced document or any excerpt of it that you
incorporate into your issuer bid circular. Unless you have already filed
the referenced document, you must file it with your issuer bid circular.
You must also disclose that the document is on SEDAR+ at
www.sedarplus.com
and that, on request, you will promptly provide a copy of the document
free of charge to a security holder of the issuer.



(c) Plain language


Write the issuer bid circular so that readers are able to understand it
and make informed investment decisions. Issuers should apply plain
language principles when they prepare an issuer bid circular including:

â€¢ using short sentences;
â€¢ using definite everyday language;
â€¢ using the active voice;
â€¢ avoiding superfluous words;

â€¢ organizing the document into clear, concise sections, paragraphs and
sentences;

â€¢ avoiding jargon;

â€¢ using personal pronouns to speak directly to the reader;


â€¢ avoiding reliance on glossaries and defined terms unless it
facilitates understanding of the disclosure;

â€¢ avoiding vague boilerplate wording;

â€¢ avoiding abstract terms by using more concrete terms or examples;

â€¢ avoiding multiple negatives;

â€¢ using technical terms only when necessary and explaining those terms;


â€¢ using charts, tables and examples where it makes disclosure easier to
understand.


If you use technical terms, explain them in a clear and concise manner.



(d) Numbering and headings


The numbering, headings and ordering of items included in this Form are
guidelines only. You do not need to include the heading or numbering or
follow the order of items in this Form. You do not need to refer to
inapplicable items and, unless otherwise required in this Form, you may
omit negative answers to items. Disclosure provided in response to any
item need not be repeated elsewhere in the circular.


Part 2 â€” Contents of Issuer Bid Circular



Item 1. Name of issuer


State the corporate name of the issuer or, if the issuer is an
unincorporated entity, the full name under which it exists and carries
on business.



Item 2. Securities subject to the bid


State the class and number of securities that are the subject of the
issuer bid and a description of the rights of the holders of any other
class of securities that have a right to participate in the offer. Where
the number of securities sought under the bid is subject to additional
purchases by the issuer for the purpose of preventing security holders
from being left with less than a standard trading unit, disclose this
fact.


Where the issuer intends to rely on the exception from the proportionate
take up and payment requirements found in subsection 2.26 (3) of the
Instrument relating to "dutch auctions", the issuer is not required to
disclose the number of securities that are the subject of the issuer bid
if the issuer discloses a maximum amount the issuer intends to spend
making purchases pursuant to the bid.



Item 3. Time period


State the dates on which the issuer bid will commence and expire.



Item 4. Consideration


State the consideration to be offered. If the consideration includes
securities, state the particulars of the designation, rights,
privileges, restrictions and conditions attaching to those securities.



Item 5. Payment for deposited securities


State the particulars of the method and time of payment of the
consideration.



Item 6. Right to withdraw deposited securities


Describe the right to withdraw securities deposited under the issuer
bid. State that the withdrawal is made by sending a written notice to
the designated depository and becomes effective on its receipt by the
depository.



Item 7. Source of funds


State the source of any funds to be used for payment of deposited
securities. If the funds are to be borrowed, state

(a) the name of the lender,

(b) the terms and financing conditions of the loan,


(c) the circumstances under which the loan must be repaid, and

(d) the proposed method of repayment.


Item 8. Participation


If the issuer bid is for less than all of the outstanding securities of
that class, state that if a greater number or principal amount of the
securities are deposited than the issuer is bound or willing to take up
and pay for, the issuer will take up as nearly as may be
proportionately, disregarding fractions, according to the number or
principal amount of the securities deposited. To the extent that this is
not the case, as permitted by securities legislation, the response to
this item should be modified accordingly.


If an issuer intends to rely on one or both of the exceptions from the
proportionate take up and payment requirements found in subsections 2.26
(2) and (3) of the Instrument relating to standard trading units and
"dutch auctions", describe the mechanism under which securities would be
deposited and taken up without proration.



Item 9. Purpose of the bid


State the purpose for the issuer bid, and if it is anticipated that the
issuer bid will be followed by a going private transaction or other
transaction such as a business combination, describe the proposed
transaction.



Item 10. Trading in securities to be acquired

Provide a summary showing

(a) the name of each principal market on which the securities sought are
traded,


(b) any change in a principal market that is planned following the
issuer bid,


(c) where reasonably ascertainable, in reasonable detail, the volume of
trading and price range of the class of the securities in the 6-month
period preceding the date of the issuer bid, or, in the case of debt
securities, the prices quoted on each principal market, and


(d) the date that the issuer bid to which the circular relates was
announced to the public and the market price of the securities of the
issuer immediately before that announcement.



Item 11. Ownership of securities of issuer


State the number, designation and the percentage of the outstanding
securities of any class of securities of the issuer beneficially owned
or over which control or direction is exercised


(a) by each director and officer of the issuer, and

(b) if known after reasonable enquiry, by

(i) each associate or affiliate of an insider of the issuer,

(ii) each associate or affiliate of the issuer,

(iii) an insider of the issuer, other than a director or officer of the
issuer, and


(iv) each person acting jointly or in concert with the issuer.


In each case where no securities are owned, directed or controlled,
state this fact.



Item 12. Commitments to acquire securities of issuer


Disclose all agreements, commitments or understandings made by the
issuer and, if known after reasonable enquiry, by the persons referred
to in item 11, to acquire securities of the issuer, and the terms and
conditions of those agreements, commitments or understandings.



Item 13. Acceptance of issuer bid


If known after reasonable enquiry, state the name of every person named
in item 11 who has accepted or intends to accept the issuer bid and the
number of securities in respect of which the person has accepted or
intends to accept the issuer bid.



Item 14. Benefits from the bid


State the direct or indirect benefits to any of the persons named in
item 11 of accepting or refusing the issuer bid.



Item 15. Material changes in the affairs of issuer


Disclose the particulars of any plans or proposals for material changes
in the affairs of the issuer, including, for example, any contract or
agreement under negotiation, any proposal to liquidate the issuer, to
sell, lease or exchange all or a substantial part of its assets, to
amalgamate it or to make any material changes in its business, corporate
structure (debt or equity), management or personnel.



Item 16. Other benefits


If any material changes or subsequent transactions are contemplated, as
described in item 9 or 15, state any specific benefit, direct or
indirect, as a result of such changes or transactions to any of the
persons named in item 11.




Item 17. Arrangements between the issuer and security holders



(1) Disclose the particulars of any agreement, commitment or
understanding made or proposed to be made between the issuer and a
security holder of the issuer relating to the bid, including a
description of its purpose, its date, the identity of the parties, and
its terms and conditions. Disclosure with respect to each agreement,
commitment or understanding, other than an agreement that a security
holder will tender securities to an issuer bid, must include


(a) a detailed explanation as to how the issuer determined entering into
it was not prohibited by section 2.24 of the Instrument, or


(b) disclosure of the exception to, or exemption from, the prohibition
against collateral agreements relied on by the issuer and the facts
supporting that reliance.


(2) If the issuer is relying on an exception to the prohibition against
collateral agreements under subparagraph 2.25 (1) (b) (ii) of the
Instrument, and if the information is available to the issuer, disclose
the review process undertaken by the independent committee of directors
of the issuer and the basis on which the independent committee made its
determination under clause 2.25Â (1)Â (b)Â (ii)Â (A)
orÂ (B) of the Instrument.



Item 18. Previous purchases and sales


State the following information about any securities of the issuer
purchased or sold by the issuer during the twelve months preceding the
date of the issuer bid, excluding securities purchased or sold pursuant
to the exercise of employee stock options, warrants and conversion
rights:

(a) the description of the security,
(b) the number of securities purchased or sold,

(c) the purchase or sale price of the security, and

(d) the date and purpose of each transaction.

If no securities were purchased or sold, state this fact.



Item 19. Financial statements


If the most recently available interim financial report is not included,
include a statement that the most recent interim financial report will
be sent without charge to any security holder requesting them.



Item 20. Valuation


If a valuation is required by applicable securities legislation, include
the disclosure regarding valuations required by securities legislation.




Item 21. Securities of issuer to be exchanged for others



If an issuer bid provides that the consideration for the securities of
the issuer is to be, in whole or in part, different securities of the
issuer, include the financial and other information prescribed for a
prospectus of the issuer.



Item 22. Approval of issuer bid circular


State that the issuer bid circular has been approved by the issuer's
directors, disclosing the name of any individual director of the issuer
who has informed the directors in writing of their opposition to the
issuer bid and that the delivery of the issuer bid circular to the
security holders of the issuer has been authorized by the issuer's
directors.


If the issuer bid is part of a transaction or to be followed by a
transaction required to be approved by minority security holders, state
the nature of the approval required.



Item 23. Previous distribution


If the securities of the class subject to the issuer bid were
distributed during the 5 years preceding the issuer bid, state the
distribution price per share and the aggregate proceeds received by the
issuer or selling security holder.



Item 24. Dividend policy


State the frequency and amount of dividends with respect to shares of
the issuer during the 2 years preceding the date of the issuer bid, any
restrictions on the issuer's ability to pay dividends and any plan or
intention to declare a dividend or to alter the dividend policy of the
issuer.



Item 25. Tax consequences


Provide a general description of the income tax consequences in Canada
of the issuer bid to the issuer and to the security holders of any class
affected.



Item 26. Expenses of bid


Provide a statement of the expenses incurred or to be incurred in
connection with the issuer bid.



Item 27. Right of appraisal and acquisition


State any rights of appraisal the security holders of the issuer have
under the laws or constating documents governing, or contracts binding,
the issuer and state whether or not the issuer intends to exercise any
right of acquisition the issuer may have.



Item 28. Statement of rights


Include the following statement of rights provided under the securities
legislation of the jurisdictions relating to this circular:


Securities legislation in the provinces and territories of Canada
provides security holders of the offeree issuer with, in addition to any
other rights they may have at law, one or more rights of rescission,
price revision or to damages, if there is a misrepresentation in a
circular or notice that is required to be delivered to those security
holders. However, such rights must be exercised within prescribed time
limits. Security holders should refer to the applicable provisions of
the securities legislation of their province or territory for
particulars of those rights or consult a lawyer.



Item 29. Other material facts

Describe

(a) any material facts concerning the securities of the issuer, and


(b) any other matter not disclosed in the issuer bid circular that has
not previously been generally disclosed, is known to the issuer, and
that would reasonably be expected to affect the decision of the security
holders of the issuer to accept or reject the offer.



Item 30. Solicitations


Disclose any person retained by or on behalf of the issuer to make
solicitations in respect of the issuer bid and the particulars of the
compensation arrangements.



Item 31. Certificate


An issuer bid circular certificate form must state:


The foregoing contains no untrue statement of a material fact and does
not omit to state a material fact that is required to be stated or that
is necessary to make a statement not misleading in the light of the
circumstances in which it was made.



Item 32. Date of issuer bid circular

Specify the date of the issuer bid circular.


Form 62-104F3


[am. B.C. Regs. 383/2010, Sch. F, s. 2; 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 28.]


Directors' Circular


Part 1 â€” General Provisions



(a) Defined terms


If a term is used but not defined in this Form, refer to Part 1 of
National Instrument 62-104
Take-Over Bids and Issuer Bids
(the Instrument) and to National Instrument 14-101
Definitions
.



(b) Plain language


Write the directors' circular so that readers are able to understand it
and make informed investment decisions. Directors should apply plain
language principles when they prepare a directors' circular including:

â€¢ using short sentences;
â€¢ using definite everyday language;
â€¢ using the active voice;
â€¢ avoiding superfluous words;

â€¢ organizing the document into clear, concise sections, paragraphs and
sentences;

â€¢ avoiding jargon;

â€¢ using personal pronouns to speak directly to the reader;


â€¢ avoiding reliance on glossaries and defined terms unless it
facilitates understanding of the disclosure;

â€¢ avoiding vague boilerplate wording;

â€¢ avoiding abstract terms by using more concrete terms or examples;

â€¢ avoiding multiple negatives;

â€¢ using technical terms only when necessary and explaining those terms;


â€¢ using charts, tables and examples where it makes disclosure easier to
understand.


If you use technical terms, explain them in a clear and concise manner.



(c) Numbering and headings


The numbering, headings and ordering of items included in this Form are
guidelines only. You do not need to include the heading or numbering or
follow the order of items in this Form. You do not need to refer to
inapplicable items and, unless otherwise required in this Form, you may
omit negative answers to items. Disclosure provided in response to any
item need not be repeated elsewhere in the circular.


Part 2 â€” Contents of Directors' Circular



Item 1. Name of offeror


State the corporate name of the offeror or, if the offeror is an
unincorporated entity, the full name under which it exists and carries
on business.



Item 2. Name of offeree issuer


State the corporate name of the offeree issuer or, if the offeree issuer
is an unincorporated entity, the full name under which it exists and
carries on business.



Item 3. Names of directors of the offeree issuer


State the name of each director of the offeree issuer.



Item 4. Ownership of securities of offeree issuer


State the number, designation and the percentage of the outstanding
securities of any class of securities of the offeree issuer beneficially
owned or over which control or direction is exercised


(a) by each director and officer of the offeree issuer, and

(b) if known after reasonable enquiry, by

(i) each associate or affiliate of an insider of the offeree issuer,


(ii) each associate or affiliate of the offeree issuer,


(iii) an insider of the offeree issuer, other than a director or officer
of the offeree issuer, and


(iv) each person acting jointly or in concert with the offeree issuer.


In each case where no securities are owned, directed or controlled,
state this fact.



Item 5. Acceptance of take-over bid


If known after reasonable enquiry, state the name of every person named
in item 4 who has accepted or intends to accept the offer and the number
of securities in respect of which such person has accepted or intends to
accept the offer.



Item 6. Ownership of securities of offeror


If a take-over bid is made by or on behalf of an offeror that is an
issuer, state the number, designation and percentage of the outstanding
securities of any class of securities of the offeror beneficially owned
or over which control or direction is exercised

(a) by the offeree issuer,

(b) by each director and officer of the offeree issuer, and

(c) if known after reasonable enquiry, by

(i) each associate or affiliate of an insider of the offeree issuer,


(ii) each affiliate or associate of the offeree issuer, and


(iii) an insider of the offeree issuer, other than a director or officer
of the offeree issuer, and


(iv) each person acting jointly or in concert with the offeree issuer.


In each case where no securities are so owned, directed or controlled,
state this fact.




Item 7. Relationship between the offeror and the directors and
officers of the offeree issuer



Disclose the particulars of any agreement, commitment or understanding
made or proposed to be made between the offeror and any of the directors
or officers of the offeree issuer, including particulars of any payment
or other benefit proposed to be made or given by way of compensation for
loss of office or their remaining in or retiring from office if the
take-over bid is successful. State also whether any directors or
officers of the offeree issuer are also directors or officers of the
offeror or any subsidiary of the offeror and identify those persons.




Item 8. Arrangements between offeree issuer and officers and directors



Disclose the particulars of any agreement, commitment or understanding
made or proposed to be made between the offeree issuer and any of the
directors or officers of the offeree issuer, including particulars of
any payment or other benefit proposed to be made or given by way of
compensation for loss of office or their remaining in or retiring from
office if the take-over bid is successful.




Item 9. Arrangements between the offeror and security holders of
offeree issuer



(1) If not already disclosed in the take-over bid circular, disclose the
particulars of any agreement, commitment or understanding made or
proposed to be made between the offeror and a security holder of the
offeree issuer relating to the bid, including a description of its
purpose, its date, the identity of the parties, and its terms and
conditions. Disclosure with respect to each agreement, commitment or
understanding, other than an agreement that a security holder will
tender securities to a take-over bid made by the offeror, must include


(a) a detailed explanation as to how the offeror determined entering
into it was not prohibited by section 2.24 of the Instrument, or


(b) disclosure of the exception to, or exemption from, the prohibition
against collateral agreements relied on by the offeror and the facts
supporting that reliance.


(2) If the offeror is relying on an exception to the prohibition against
collateral agreements under subparagraph 2.25 (1) (b) (ii) of the
Instrument, and if not already disclosed in the take-over bid circular,
disclose the review process undertaken by the independent committee of
directors of the issuer and the basis on which the independent committee
made its determination under clause 2.25 (1) (b) (ii) (A) or (B) of the
Instrument.




Item 10. Interests of directors and officers of the offeree issuer in
material transactions with offeror



State whether any director or officer of the offeree issuer and their
associates and, if known to the directors or officers after reasonable
enquiry, whether any person who owns more than 10% of any class of
equity securities of the offeree issuer for the time being outstanding
has any interest in any material transaction to which the offeror is a
party, and if so, state particulars of the nature and extent of such
interest.




Item 11. Trading by directors, officers and other insiders



(1) State the number of securities of the offeree issuer traded, the
purchase or sale price and the date of each transaction during the
6-month period preceding the date of the directors' circular by the
offeree issuer and each director, officer or other insider of the
offeree issuer, and, if known after reasonable enquiry, by


(a) each associate or affiliate of an insider of the offeree issuer,


(b) each affiliate or associate of the offeree issuer, and


(c) each person acting jointly or in concert with the offeree issuer.


(2) Disclose the number and price of securities of the offeree issuer of
the class of securities subject to the bid or convertible into
securities of that class that have been issued to the directors,
officers and other insiders of the offeree issuer during the 2-year
period preceding the date of the circular.



Item 12. Additional information


If any information required to be disclosed by the take-over bid
circular prepared by the offeror has been presented incorrectly or is
misleading, supply any additional information which will make the
information in the circular correct or not misleading.




Item 13. Material changes in the affairs of offeree issuer



State the particulars of any information known to any of the directors
or officers of the offeree issuer that indicates any material change in
the affairs of the offeree issuer since the date of the last published
interim financial report or annual financial statements of the offeree
issuer.



Item 14. Other material information


State the particulars of any other information known to the directors
but not already disclosed in the directors' circular that would
reasonably be expected to affect the decision of the security holders of
the offeree issuer to accept or reject the offer.




Item 15. Recommending acceptance or rejection of the bid



Include either a recommendation to accept or reject the take-over bid
and the reasons for such recommendation or a statement that the
directors are unable to make or are not making a recommendation. If no
recommendation is made, state the reasons for not making a
recommendation. If the directors of an offeree issuer are considering
recommending acceptance or rejection of a take-over bid after the
sending of the directors' circular, state that fact.



Item 16. Response of offeree issuer


Describe any transaction, directors' resolution, agreement in principle
or signed contract of the offeree issuer in response to the bid.
Disclose whether there are any negotiations underway in response to the
bid, which relate to or would result in


(a) an extraordinary transaction such as a merger or reorganization
involving the offeree issuer or a subsidiary,


(b) the purchase, sale or transfer of a material amount of assets by the
offeree issuer or a subsidiary,

(c) a competing take-over bid,

(d) a bid by the offeree issuer for its own securities or for those of
another issuer, or


(e) any material change in the present capitalization or dividend policy
of the offeree issuer.


If there is an agreement in principle, give full particulars.



Item 17. Approval of directors' circular


State that the directors' circular has been approved and its sending has
been authorized by the directors of the offeree issuer.



Item 18. Statement of rights


Include the following statement of rights provided under the securities
legislation of the jurisdictions relating to this circular:


Securities legislation in the provinces and territories of Canada
provides security holders of the offeree issuer with, in addition to any
other rights they may have at law, one or more rights of rescission,
price revision or to damages, if there is a misrepresentation in a
circular or notice that is required to be delivered to those security
holders. However, such rights must be exercised within prescribed time
limits. Security holders should refer to the applicable provisions of
the securities legislation of their province or territory for
particulars of those rights or consult a lawyer.



Item 19. Certificate


A directors' circular certificate form must state:


The foregoing contains no untrue statement of a material fact and does
not omit to state a material fact that is required to be stated or that
is necessary to make a statement not misleading in the light of the
circumstances in which it was made.



Item 20. Date of directors' circular

Specify the date of the directors' circular.


Form 62-104F4


[am. B.C. Regs. 383/2010, Sch. F, s. 3; 106/2016, Sch. B, s. 29.]


Director's or Officer's Circular


Part 1 â€” General Provisions



(a) Defined terms


If a term is used but not defined in this Form, refer to Part 1 of
National Instrument 62-104
Take-Over Bids and Issuer Bids
(the Instrument) and to National Instrument 14-101
Definitions
.



(b) Plain language


Write the director's or officer's circular so that readers are able to
understand it and make informed investment decisions. Directors and
officers should apply plain language principles when they prepare a
director's or officer's circular including:

â€¢ using short sentences;
â€¢ using definite everyday language;
â€¢ using the active voice;
â€¢ avoiding superfluous words;

â€¢ organizing the document into clear, concise sections, paragraphs and
sentences;

â€¢ avoiding jargon;

â€¢ using personal pronouns to speak directly to the reader;


â€¢ avoiding reliance on glossaries and defined terms unless it
facilitates understanding of the disclosure;

â€¢ avoiding vague boilerplate wording;

â€¢ avoiding abstract terms by using more concrete terms or examples;

â€¢ avoiding multiple negatives;

â€¢ using technical terms only when necessary and explaining those terms;


â€¢ using charts, tables and examples where it makes disclosure easier to
understand.


If you use technical terms, explain them in a clear and concise manner.



(c) Numbering and headings


The numbering, headings and ordering of items included in this Form are
guidelines only. You do not need to include the heading or numbering or
follow the order of items in this Form. You do not need to refer to
inapplicable items and, unless otherwise required in this Form, you may
omit negative answers to items. Disclosure provided in response to any
item need not be repeated elsewhere in the circular.


Part 2 â€” Contents of Director's or Officer's Circular



Item 1. Name of offeror


State the corporate name of the offeror or, if the offeror is an
unincorporated entity, the full name under which it exists and carries
on business.



Item 2. Name of offeree issuer


State the corporate name of the offeree issuer or, if the offeree issuer
is an unincorporated entity, the full name under which it exists and
carries on business.



Item 3. Name of director or officer of offeree issuer


State the name of each director or officer delivering the circular.



Item 4. Ownership of securities of offeree issuer


State the number, designation and percentage of the outstanding
securities of any class of securities of the offeree issuer beneficially
owned or over which control or direction is exercised

(a) by the director or officer, and

(b) if known after reasonable enquiry, by the associates of the director
or officer.


In each case where no securities are so owned, directed or controlled,
state this fact.



Item 5. Acceptance of bid


State whether the director or officer of the offeree issuer and, if
known after reasonable enquiry whether any associate of such director or
officer, has accepted or intends to accept the offer and state the
number of securities in respect of which the director or officer, or any
associate, has accepted or intends to accept the offer.



Item 6. Ownership of securities of offeror


If a take-over bid is made by or on behalf of an issuer, state the
number, designation and percentage of the outstanding securities of any
class of securities of the offeror beneficially owned or over which
control or direction is exercised

(a) by the director or officer, or

(b) if known after reasonable enquiry, by the associates of the director
or officer.


In each case where no securities are so owned, directed or controlled,
state this fact.




Item 7. Arrangements between offeror and director or officer



Disclose the particulars of any agreement, commitment or understanding
made or proposed to be made between the offeror and the director or
officer, including particulars of any payment or other benefit proposed
to be made or given by way of compensation for loss of office or the
director or officer remaining in or retiring from office if the
take-over bid is successful. State whether the director or officer is
also a director or officer of the offeror or any subsidiary of the
offeror.




Item 8. Arrangements between offeree issuer and director or officer



Disclose the particulars of any agreement, commitment or understanding
made or proposed to be made between the offeree issuer and the director
or officer, including particulars of any payment or other benefit
proposed to be made or given by way of compensation for loss of office
or his or her remaining in or retiring from office if the take-over bid
is successful.




Item 9. Interests of director or officer in material transactions with
offeror



State whether the director or officer or the associates of the director
or officer have any interest in any material transaction to which the
offeror is a party, and if so, state the particulars of the nature and
extent of such interest.



Item 10. Additional information


If any information required to be disclosed by the take-over bid
circular prepared by the offeror or the directors' circular prepared by
the directors has been presented incorrectly or is misleading, supply
any additional information within the knowledge of the director or
officer which would make the information in the take-over bid circular
or directors' circular correct or not misleading.




Item 11. Material changes in the affairs of offeree issuer



State the particulars of any information known to the director or
officer that indicates any material change in the affairs of the offeree
issuer since the date of the last published interim financial report or
annual financial statements of the offeree issuer and not generally
disclosed or in the opinion of the director or officer not adequately
disclosed in the take-over bid circular or directors' circular.



Item 12. Other material information


State the particulars of any other information known to the director or
officer but not already disclosed in the director's or officer's
circular that would reasonably be expected to affect the decision of the
security holders of the offeree issuer to accept or reject the offer.



Item 13. Recommendation


State the recommendation of the director or officer and the reasons for
the recommendation.



Item 14. Statement of rights


Include the following statement of rights provided under the securities
legislation of the jurisdictions relating to this circular:



Securities legislation of the provinces and territories of Canada
provides security holders of the offeree issuer with, in addition to
any other rights they may have at law, one or more rights of
rescission, price revision or to damages if there is a
misrepresentation in a circular or notice that is required to be
delivered to those security holders. However, such rights must be
exercised within prescribed time limits. Security holders should refer
to the applicable provisions of the securities legislation of their
province or territory for particulars of those rights or consult a
lawyer.




Item 15. Certificate


Include a certificate in the following form signed by or on behalf of
each director or officer delivering the circular:


The foregoing contains no untrue statement of a material fact and does
not omit to state a material fact that is required to be stated or that
is necessary to make a statement not misleading in the light of the
circumstances in which it was made.



Item 16. Date of director's or officer's circular


Specify the date of the director's or officer's circular.



Form 62-104F5

[am. B.C. Reg. 106/2016, Sch. B, ss. 30 and 31.]

Notice of Change or Notice of Variation


Part 1 â€” General Provisions



(a) Defined terms


If a term is used but not defined in this Form, refer to Part 1 of
National Instrument 62-104
Take-Over Bids and Issuer Bids
(the Instrument) and to National Instrument 14-101
Definitions
.



(b) Plain language


Write the notice of change or notice of variation so that readers are
able to understand it and make informed investment decisions. Plain
language principles should be applied when preparing a notice of change
or notice of variation including:

â€¢ using short sentences;
â€¢ using definite everyday language;
â€¢ using the active voice;
â€¢ avoiding superfluous words;

â€¢ organizing the document into clear, concise sections, paragraphs and
sentences;

â€¢ avoiding jargon;

â€¢ using personal pronouns to speak directly to the reader;


â€¢ avoiding reliance on glossaries and defined terms unless it
facilitates understanding of the disclosure;

â€¢ avoiding vague boilerplate wording;

â€¢ avoiding abstract terms by using more concrete terms or examples;

â€¢ avoiding multiple negatives;

â€¢ using technical terms only when necessary and explaining those terms;


â€¢ using charts, tables and examples where it makes disclosure easier to
understand.


If you use technical terms, explain them in a clear and concise manner.



(c) Numbering and headings


The numbering, headings and ordering of items included in this Form are
guidelines only. You do not need to include the heading or numbering or
follow the order of items in this Form. You do not need to refer to
inapplicable items and, unless otherwise required in this Form, you may
omit negative answers to items. Disclosure provided in response to any
item need not be repeated elsewhere in the circular.



Part 2 â€” Contents of Notice of Change or Notice of Variation




Item 1. Name of offeror


State the corporate name of the offeror or, if the offeror is an
unincorporated entity, the full name under which it exists and carries
on business.



Item 2. Name of offeree issuer (if applicable)


State the corporate name of the offeree issuer or, if the offeree issuer
is an unincorporated entity, the full name under which it exists and
carries on business.




Item 3. Particulars of notice of change or notice of variation



(1) A notice of change required under section 2.11 of the Instrument
must contain


(a) a description of the change in the information contained in


(i) the take-over bid circular or issuer bid circular, and


(ii) any notice of change previously delivered under section 2.11,

(b) the date of the change,

(c) the date up to which securities may be deposited,


(d) the date by which securities deposited must be taken up by the
offeror, and


(e) a description of the rights of withdrawal that are available to
security holders.


(2) A notice of variation required under section 2.12 of the Instrument
must contain


(a) a description of the variation in the terms of the take-over bid or
issuer bid,


(a.1) if one of the terms referred to in paragraph (a) is the mandatory
10-day extension period required pursuant to paragraph 2.31.1 (a) of the
Instrument, the number of securities deposited under the take-over bid
and not withdrawn as at the date of the variation,

(b) the date of the variation,

(c) the date up to which securities may be deposited,


(d) the date by which securities deposited must be taken up by the
offeror,


(e) if the date referred to in paragraph (d) is not known, a description
of the legal requirements regarding the timing of take up of securities
deposited under the bid,


(f) a description of when payment will be made for deposited securities
in relation to the time in which they are taken up by the offeror, and


(g) a description of the rights of withdrawal that are available to
security holders.


(3) A notice of change required under section 2.18 or subsection 2.20
(2) of the Instrument must contain, as applicable, a description of the
change in the information contained in

(a) the directors' circular,

(b) any notice of change previously delivered under section 2.18,

(c) the director's or officer's circular, or

(d) any notice of change previously delivered under subsection 2.20 (2).



Item 4. Statement of rights


Include the following statement of rights provided under the securities
legislation of the jurisdictions relating to this notice:


Securities legislation of the provinces and territories of Canada
provides security holders of the offeree issuer with, in addition to any
other rights they may have at law, one or more rights of rescission,
price revision or to damages if there is a misrepresentation in a
circular or notice that is required to be delivered to those security
holders. However, such rights must be exercised within prescribed time
limits. Security holders should refer to the applicable provisions of
the securities legislation of their province or territory for
particulars of those rights or consult a lawyer.



Item 5. Certificate


Include the signed certificate required in the bid circular, directors'
circular or director's or officer's circular, amended to refer to the
initial circular and to all subsequent notices of change or notices of
variation.




Item 6. Date of notice of change or notice of variation



Specify the date of the notice of change or notice of variation.


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Securities Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, s. 184.]



