

Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Regulation


Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act



Item

Column 1

Family unit composition


Column 2

Age or status of applicant or recipient


Column 3

Amount ($)



1

Sole applicant / recipient and no dependent children


Applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities

$983.50


2

Sole applicant / recipient and one or more dependent children


Applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities

$1 133.50


3

Two applicants / recipients and no dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, the
other is not a person with disabilities and is under 65 years of
age

$1 378.50


4

Two applicants / recipients and no dependent children


Both applicants / recipients are persons with disabilities

$1 853.50


5

Two applicants / recipients and no dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, the
other is not a person with disabilities and is 65 or more years
of age

$1 628.50


6

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, the
other is not a person with disabilities and is under 65 years of
age

$1 478.50


7

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants / recipients are persons with disabilities

$1 953.50


8

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, the
other is not a person with disabilities and is 65 or more years
of age

$1 728.50


9

Sole applicant / recipient and one or more dependent children


Applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities and a
warrant has been issued for the applicant / recipient

$1 033.50


10

Two applicants / recipients and no dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, and the
other is under 65 years of age, and a warrant has been issued
for one

$1 033.50


11

Two applicants / recipients and no dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, and the
other is 65 or more years of age and a warrant has been issued
for that applicant / recipient

$1 033.50


12

Two applicants / recipients and no dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities and a
warrant has been issued for that applicant / recipient, and the
other is 65 or more years of age

$1 033.50


13

Two applicants / recipients and no dependent children


Both applicants / recipients are persons with disabilities and a
warrant has been issued for one

$1 260.50


14

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, and the
other is under 65 years of age and a warrant has been issued for
that applicant / recipient

$1 378.50


15

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities and a
warrant has been issued for that applicant / recipient, and the
other is under 65 years of age

$1 378.50


16

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities and the
other is under 65 years of age, and a warrant has been issued
for both

$1 328.50


17

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, and the
other is 65 or more years of age and a warrant has been issued
for that applicant / recipient

$1 628.50


18

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities and a
warrant has been issued for that applicant / recipient, and the
other is 65 or more years of age

$1 628.50


19

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities and the
other is 65 or more years of age, and a warrant has been issued
for both

$1 578.50


20

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants / recipients are persons with disabilities and a
warrant has been issued for one

$1 853.50


21

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants / recipients are persons with disabilities and a
warrant has been issued for both

$1 803.50

