
Fort St. John Pilot Project Regulation

Forest and Range Practices Act



Item

Column 1

Enactment


Column 2

Description


Column 3

Penalty



1
16 (2)

Did not prepare a site level plan where required

$5 000


2
18

Did not prepare a site level plan where required

$5 000


3
19 (1)

Did not ensure that a site level plan met the specified
requirements

$5 000


4
19 (2)

Did not ensure that a site level plan met the specified
requirements

$5 000


5
20 (4)

Did not notify the district manager as required

$5 000


6
20 (5)

Did not comply with a request to forward assessments to resource
agencies

$2 000


7
20 (6)

Did not comply with specified review and comment requirements

$2 000


8
20 (9)

Carried out a forest practice contrary to section 20 (9)

$10 000


9
21

Did not carry out a required archaeological impact assessment

$5 000


10
22 (1)

Did not prepare a site level plan where required

$20 000


11
22 (2)

Used a specified road for the purposes of timber harvesting and
related purposes without having met the specified requirements

$20 000


12
24 (2)

Carried out harvesting under an authorization before specified
appraisal data submitted

$20 000


13
26

Did not comply with the requirements of any notice, authorization
or condition specified by the district manager

$20 000


14

28 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (f) or (g)


Did not ensure that a forest practice met the prescribed
requirements

$50 000


15
28 (1) (e)

Did not ensure that a forest practice met the prescribed
requirements

$100 000


16
28 (2)

Did not take reasonable measures to mitigate any damage to the
environment resulting from a contravention of section 28 (1)

$100 000


17
29 (1)

Did not ensure maintenance of the required amount of area in
cutblocks in wildlife trees or wildlife tree patches

$20 000


18
29 (2)

Did not ensure maintenance of the required proportion of
pre-harvesting coarse woody debris in cutblocks

$20 000


19
30 (1)

Exceeded the specified limit for the area that may be occupied by
permanent access structures

$50 000


20
30 (2)

Did not deactivate permanent access structures where required

$50 000


21
30.1

Exceeded the specified limit for the area that may be occupied by
soil disturbance

$50 000


22
31 (1)

Did not ensure that roads provide for safe usage by the types and
levels of traffic for which the road was intended

$2 000


23
31 (2)

Did not maintain a specified road until the deactivation of the
road or the notification referred to in section 31 (2)

$50 000


24
32 (3)

Did not reforest specified areas in accordance with the specified
requirements

$100 000


25
32 (8)

Did not carry out silviculture regimes that are designed to
achieve the specified target stocking requirements

$5 000


26
33

Did not ensure the destruction of insect broods within the
specified time when using trap trees or pheromones to concentrate
insect populations

$5 000


27
34

Did not prepare a sustainable forest management prescription
during the prescribed period

$10 000


28
42 (3) (a)

Did not achieve targets specified in a sustainable forest
management plan within the applicable range of variance specified
in the plan.

$50 000


29
42 (3) (b)

Did not carry out forest operations in a manner that is consistent
with any applicable landscape level strategies specified in the
plan.

$5 000


30
42 (3) (c)

Did not ensure that the stocking in coniferous areas conforms to
any applicable mean stocked quadrant value specified in the plan.

$100 000


31
42 (3) (d)

Did not ensure that the retention of wildlife trees conforms to
any applicable wildlife tree retention requirements specified in
the plan.

$20 000


32
42 (3) (e)

Did not ensure that the retention of coarse woody debris conforms
to any applicable coarse woody debris retention requirements
specified in the plan.

$20 000


33
42 (4) (a)

Did not ensure that the operations are consistent with targets
specified in a sustainable forest management plan within the
applicable range of variance specified in the plan.

$20 000


34
42 (4) (b)

Did not ensure that the operations are consistent with any
applicable landscape level strategies specified in the plan.

$20 000


35
42 (4) (c)

Did not ensure that the operations are consistent with the
reforestation requirements described in section 32 and Schedule F.

$50 000


36
44 (1)

Did not submit the required assessment and proposal within the
specified time where a higher level plan has come into effect
after the approval of a sustainable forest management plan

$20 000


37
44 (3)

Did not implement a proposal approved by the regional manager

$20 000


38
46 (1)

Did not establish and maintain a public advisory group

$10 000


39
46 (2) (a)

Did not confirm membership to the public advisory group as
required

$2 000


40
46 (2) (b)

Did not publish a notice specifying the membership of the public
advisory group as required

$2 000


41
49 (1)

Did not maintain records and plans as required

$5 000


42
49 (2)

Did not produce records and plans as required

$5 000


43
50 (1)

Did not submit to and pay for a periodic independent audit as
required

$10 000


44
51 (1)

Did not submit an annual report as required

$10 000


45
51 (2)

Did not submit an annual report as required

$10 000


46
51 (4)

Did not provide a copy of the annual report to the district
manager and the public advisory group as required

$2 000


47
53 (3)

Did not comply with the minister's request related to an
evaluation of the pilot project

$5 000


48
55 (3)

Did not take the measures specified by the district manager to
rehabilitate the area

$50 000


49
55 (4)

Did not take the measures specified by the district manager to
rehabilitate the area

$50 000


50
57 (1)

Did not make copies of all plans and assessments available as
required

$10 000


51
57 (2)

Did not make a copy of a proposed sustainable forest management
plan available to the public as required

$5 000


52
57 (3)

Did not make the specified information available for review by the
public

$5 000


53
60 (5)

Did not comply with a condition imposed by the minister

$10 000

