
Fort St. John Pilot Project Regulation

Forest and Range Practices Act



Item

Column 1

Management Zones


Column 2

Objectives



1

Agriculture

Settlement Area


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,

development and transportation.

• Ensure future infrastructure requirements are considered when

exploring for oil and gas.

• Maintain timber harvesting and forest management opportunities.

• Minimize losses to the timber harvesting land.

• Provide a full range of recreation opportunities.

• Maintain or increase land supply for agriculture including
access

to Crown land.

• Minimize or mitigate wildlife impact on agricultural
enterprises.

• Provide opportunities for the growth of agriculture.

• Provide opportunities for the growth and expansion of the

agriculture and food production industries.

• Maintain or enhance opportunities for livestock grazing.

• Control the spread of noxious weeds.

• Maintain existing access, coordinate industrial access
development

including linear development to minimize negative effects on other

resource values.

• Protect or enhance habitats for red and blue listed species.

• Maintain habitat for priority furbearing species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain site specific habitats.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development
particularly

aggregates and industrial minerals and allow for access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Sustain natural stream flow regime.

• Maintain groundwater quality and quantity.

• Ensure that all land and resource management planning activities
within the

planning area provide for consultation with local municipal
governments.



2

Aikman-

Deadhorse


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development and

transportation.

• Enhance timber harvesting and a sustainable long-term timber
supply.

• Minimize losses to the timber harvesting land base.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities
and values.

• Provide opportunities for the growth and expansion of the
agriculture and food

production industries.

• Minimize or mitigate wildlife impact on agricultural
enterprises.

• Maintain or enhance opportunities for livestock grazing.

• Maintain livestock grazing opportunities on existing tenures.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Maintain habitat for priority furbearing species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain site specific habitats.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Restore and rehabilitate negatively impacted ecosystems.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development
and

allow for access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Sustain natural stream flow regime.

• Maintain groundwater quality and quantity.



3

Alaska Highway

Corridor


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development

and transportation.

• Maintain timber harvesting and forest management opportunities.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities
and values.

• Maintain or enhance opportunities for livestock grazing.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Maintain site specific habitats.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Maintain historical significance of the Alaska Highway.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development
(particularly

aggregates and industrial minerals) and allow for access.

• Maintain fish habitat at highway stream crossings.

• Ensure that all land and resource management planning activities
within the

planning area provide for consultation with local municipal
governments.

• Manage visually sensitive areas within the Alaska Highway area.



4

Besa-Halfway-

Chowade


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development

and transportation.

• Maintain timber harvesting and forest management opportunities.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities
and values.

• Maintain guide outfitting opportunities.

• Maintain and enhance ecological integrity in areas subject to
resource impacts

from recreational use.

• Provide a full range of wilderness recreation opportunities
identified in the ROS

as primitive, semi-primitive non-motorized and semi-primitive
motorized.

• Maintain opportunities for commercial and non-commercial
livestock grazing

associated with recreation.

• Manage backcountry recreation and tourism opportunities in a
natural or natural

appearing condition.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on other

resource values.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain medium and high quality grizzly bear habitat.

• Maintain caribou habitat.

• Manage wildlife populations to provide opportunities for
non-commercial hunting.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Minimize wildlife habitat fragmentation.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development
and allow for access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Maintain high quality fisheries in natural settings.

• Maintain the headwaters of major rivers and streams as a source
of water for current

and future generations.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.

• Maintain groundwater quality and quantity.

• Manage visually sensitive areas along existing access
corridors/trails and adjacent

to protected areas.



5

Bluegrave-

Horseshoe


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development and

transportation.

• Enhance timber harvesting and a sustainable long-term timber
supply.

• Minimize losses to the timber harvesting land base.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities
and values.

• Maintain guide-outfitting opportunities.

• Provide a full range of recreation opportunities.

• Maintain and enhance ecological integrity in areas subject to
resource impacts from

recreational use.

• Minimize or mitigate wildlife impact on agriculture enterprises.

• Provide opportunities for the growth of agriculture.

• Maintain livestock grazing opportunities on existing tenures.

• Maintain or enhance opportunities for livestock grazing.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on other

resource values.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain medium and high quality grizzly bear habitat.

• Maintain caribou habitat.

• Maintain site specific habitats.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Minimize wildlife habitat fragmentation and maintain existing
large mammalian

predator-prey system.

• Restore and rehabilitate negatively affected ecosystems.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development
and allow for access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Sustain natural stream flow regime.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.

• Maintain groundwater quality and quantity.



6

Upper

Cameron


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas.

• Enhance timber harvesting and a sustainable long-term timber
supply.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities
and values.

• Maintain or increase land supply for agriculture including
access to Crown land.

• Maintain or enhance opportunities for livestock grazing.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on other

resource values.

• Maintain habitat for priority furbearing species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development
and allow for access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Sustain natural stream flow regime.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.



7

Cecil Lake

and Boundary

Lake


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil & gas exploration,
development and

transportation.

• Provide a full range of recreation opportunities.

• Minimize or mitigate wildlife impact on agricultural
enterprises.

• Control the spread of noxious weeds.

• Control the spread of noxious weeds.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resources.

• Protect or enhance habitats for red and blue listed species.

• Manage critical wetland habitats for waterfowl and other
wildlife species.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Sustain natural stream flow regime.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.



8

Charlie Lake

Water Supply Area


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development and transportation.

• Maintain timber harvesting and forest management opportunities.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities
and values.

• Provide a full range of recreation opportunities.

• Minimize or mitigate wildlife impact on agricultural
enterprises.

• Provide opportunities for the growth and expansion of the
agriculture and

food production industries.

• Maintain or enhance opportunities for livestock grazing.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Protect or enhance habitats for red and blue listed species.

• Maintain habitat for priority furbearing species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Manage critical wetland habitats for waterfowl and other
wildlife species.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Protect heritage sites and trails.

• Identify and provide for the protection of historical sites and
trails.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development

(particularly aggregates and industrial minerals) and allow for
access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Sustain natural stream flow regime.

• Protect water quality and quantity.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.

• Ensure that all land and resource management planning activities
within the

planning area provide for consultation with local municipal
governments.



9
Chinchaga

• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development

and transportation.

• Maintain timber harvesting and forest management opportunities.

• Provide a full range of recreation opportunities.

• Minimize or mitigate wildlife impact on agricultural
enterprises.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Protect or enhance habitats for red and blue listed species.

• Maintain habitat for priority furbearing species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain medium and high quality grizzly bear habitat.

• Maintain caribou habitat.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Protect heritage sites and trials.

• Identify and provide for the protection of historical sites and
trails.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development

(particularly aggregates and industrial minerals) and allow for
access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.



10
Conroy

• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development

and transportation.

• Enhance timber harvesting and a sustainable long-term timber
supply.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities
and values.

• Provide a full range of recreation opportunities.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Protect or enhance habitats for red and blue listed species.

• Maintain habitat for priority furbearing species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain site specific habitats.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Protect heritage sites and trails.

• Identify and provide for the protection of historical sites and
trails.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development

(particularly aggregates and industrial minerals) and allow for
access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Sustain natural stream flow regime.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.

• Manage visually sensitive areas within Tommy Lakes area.



11
Crying Girl

• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development

and transportation.

• Maintain timber harvesting and forest management opportunities.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities
and values.

• Maintain guide outfitting opportunities.

• Provide a full range of wilderness recreation opportunities
identified in the

ROS as semi-primitive non-motorized.

• Maintain opportunities for commercial and non-commercial
livestock grazing

that is associated with recreation.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Manage access to protect significant fish and wildlife habitats,
alpine areas

and recreation values.

• Maintain habitat for priority furbearing species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain medium and high quality grizzly bear habitat.

• Maintain caribou habitat.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Minimize wildlife habitat fragmentation and maintain existing
large mammalian

predator/prey system.

• Identify and provide for the protection of historical sites and
trails.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development
and allow

for access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.



12

Farrell

Creek


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development

and transportation.

• Enhance timber harvesting and a sustainable long-term timber
supply.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities
and values.

• Provide a full range of recreation opportunities.

• Maintain or increase land supply for agriculture including
access to

Crown land.

• Minimize or mitigate wildlife impact on agricultural
enterprises.

• Provide opportunities for the growth and expansion of the
agriculture and

food production industries.

• Maintain or enhance opportunities for livestock grazing.

• Control the spread of noxious weeds.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Maintain habitat for priority furbearing species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Manage critical wetland habitats for waterfowl and other
wildlife species.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development
and allow

for access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.

• Ensure that all land and resource management planning activities
within the

planning area provide for consultation with local municipal
governments.



13

Graham

South


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development

and transportation.

• Enhance timber harvesting and a sustainable long-term timber
supply.

• Maintain timber harvesting and forest management opportunities.

• Ensure that timber harvesting in the Graham River Watershed
recognizes

the watershed's other important resource values such as
wilderness, guide

outfitting, trapping, wildlife, fish, recreation, etc.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities
and values.

• Maintain guide outfitting opportunities.

• Provide a full range of wilderness recreation opportunities
identified in the

ROS as semi-primitive non-motorized.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Manage access to protect significant wildlife and recreation
values.

• Maintain habitat for priority furbearing species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain medium and high quality grizzly bear habitat.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Minimize wildlife habitat fragmentation.

• Restore and rehabilitate negatively affected ecosystems.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development
and

allow for access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Sustain natural stream flow regime.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.

• Manage visually sensitive areas as scenic areas.



14

Graham

North


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development

and transportation.

• Enhance timber harvesting and a sustainable long-term timber
supply.

• Maintain timber harvesting and forest management opportunities.

• Ensure that timber harvesting in the Graham River Watershed
recognizes the

watershed's other important resource values such as wilderness,
guide

outfitting, trapping, wildlife, fish, recreation, etc.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities
and values.

• Maintain guide outfitting opportunities.

• Provide a full range of wilderness recreation opportunities
identified in the ROS

as semi-primitive non-motorized.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Manage access to protect significant wildlife and recreation
values.

• Maintain habitat for priority furbearing species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain medium and high quality grizzly bear habitat.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Minimize wildlife habitat fragmentation.

• Restore and rehabilitate negatively affected ecosystems.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development
and allow for access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Sustain natural stream flow regime.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.

• Manage visually sensitive areas as scenic areas.



15

Grassy-

Minaker


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and exploration,
development and

appropriate regulatory framework.

• Maintain timber harvesting and forest management opportunities.

• Provide a full range of recreation opportunities.

• Maintain and enhance ecological integrity in areas subject to
resource impacts

from recreational use.

• Maintain opportunities for commercial and non-commercial
livestock grazing

that is associated with recreation.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on other

resource values.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain medium and high quality grizzly bear habitat.

• Maintain caribou habitat.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Minimize wildlife habitat fragmentation and maintain existing
large mammalian

predator-prey systems.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development
and allow

for access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.

• Maintain groundwater quality and quantity.



16

Grazing

Reserves


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development

and transportation.

• Maintain timber harvesting and forest management opportunities.

• Integrate recreational activities with grazing and resource
extraction.

• Minimize or mitigate wildlife impact on agricultural
enterprises.

• Maintain or enhance opportunities for livestock grazing.

• Control the spread of noxious weeds.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Manage critical wetland habitats for waterfowl and other
wildlife species.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development

(particularly aggregates and industrial minerals) and allow for
access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Sustain natural stream flow regime.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.



17
Jedney

• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,

development and transportation.

• Enhance timber harvesting and a sustainable long-term timber
supply.

• Provide a full range of recreation opportunities.

• Provide opportunities for the growth of agriculture.

• Maintain or enhance opportunities for livestock grazing.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Maintain habitat for priority furbearing species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Identify and provide for the protection of historical sites and
trails.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development

(particularly aggregates and industrial minerals) and allow for
access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Sustain natural stream flow regime.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.



18

Kobes

Creek


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,

development and transportation.

• Enhance timber harvesting and a sustainable long-term timber
supply.

• Minimize losses to the timber harvesting land base.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities

and values.

• Maintain guide outfitting opportunities.

• Provide a full range of recreation opportunities.

• Maintain or increase land supply for agriculture including
access to

Crown land.

• Provide opportunities for the growth and expansion of the
agriculture

and food production industries.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects

on other resource values.

• Manage access to protect significant sensitive wildlife habitat
areas

adjacent to Butler Ridge.

• Maintain habitat for priority furbearing species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain medium and high quality grizzly bear habitat.

• Maintain caribou habitat.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Minimize wildlife habitat fragmentation and maintain existing
large

mammalian predator-prey system.

• Restore and rehabilitate negatively affected ecosystems.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development
and

allow for access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Sustain natural stream flow regime.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.



19
Osborn

• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,

development and transportation.

• Enhance timber harvesting and a sustainable long-term timber
supply.

• Provide a full range of recreation opportunities.

• Maintain or increase land supply for agriculture including
access to

Crown land.

• Minimize or mitigate wildlife impact on agricultural
enterprises.

• Provide opportunities for the growth and expansion of the
agriculture

and food production industries.

• Maintain or enhance opportunities for livestock grazing.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects

on other resource values.

• Protect or enhance habitats for red and blue listed species.

• Maintain habitat for priority furbearing species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain site specific habitats.

• Manage critical wetland habitats for waterfowl and other
wildlife species.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Protect heritage sites and trails.

• Identify and provide for the protection of historical sites and
trails.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development

(particularly aggregates and industrial minerals) and allow for
access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Sustain natural stream flow regime.



20

Peace River

Corridor


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development

and transportation.

• Manage for forest health.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities
and values.

• Provide tourism opportunities.

• Recognize the high agricultural values within the Peace River
corridor.

• Maintain livestock grazing opportunities on existing tenures.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Protect or enhance habitats for red and blue listed species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain site specific habitat.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Protect heritage sites and trails.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development

(particularly aggregates and industrial minerals) and allow for
access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Maintain water quality in the Peace River.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.

• Manage visually sensitive areas within the Peace River Valley.



21

Major River

Corridors


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development

and transportation.

• Maintain timber harvesting and forest management opportunities.

• Manage for forest health.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities
and values.

• Provide a full range of recreation opportunities.

• Provide opportunities for the growth and expansion of the
agriculture and food

production industries.

• Maintain or enhance opportunities for livestock grazing.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Manage access to protect significant riparian habitats, fish,
wildlife and

visual quality.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain site specific habitats.

• Maintain medium and high quality grizzly bear habitat.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Identify and provide for the protection of historical sites and
trails.

• Manage visually sensitive areas as scenic areas.



22

Lower Sikanni-

Fontas Valley


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development

and transportation.

• Maintain timber harvesting and forest management opportunities.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities
and values.

• Provide a full range of recreation opportunities.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Manage access to protect significant wildlife and riparian
areas.

• Maintain habitat for priority furbearing species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain site specific habitats.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Identify and provide for the protection of historical sites and
trails.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development

(particularly aggregates and industrial minerals) and allow for
access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Maintain high quality fisheries in natural settings.



23

Trutch

Creek


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas exploration,
development

and transportation.

• Maintain timber harvesting and forest management opportunities.

• Minimize losses to the timber harvesting land base.

• Maintain guide outfitting opportunities.

• Provide a full range of recreation opportunities.

• Maintain opportunities for commercial and non-commercial
livestock grazing

associated with recreation.

• Maintain or enhance opportunities for livestock grazing.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Maintain habitat for priority furbearing species.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain medium and high quality grizzly bear habitat.

• Maintain site specific habitats.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Minimize wildlife habitat fragmentation.

• Protect heritage sites and trails.

• Identify and provide for the protection of historical sites and
trails.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development

(particularly aggregates and industrial minerals) and allow for
access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Manage visually sensitive areas as scenic areas.



24

Two Bit

Creek


• Maintain opportunities and access for oil and gas.

• Maintain timber harvesting and forest management opportunities.

• Provide quality public and commercial recreational opportunities
and values.

• Provide a full range of recreation opportunities.

• Maintain and enhance ecological integrity in areas subject to
resource

impacts from recreational use.

• Maintain or increase land supply for agriculture including
access to Crown land.

• Minimize or mitigate wildlife impact on agricultural
enterprises.

• Maintain or enhance opportunities for livestock grazing.

• Maintain livestock grazing opportunities on existing tenures.

• Coordinate access and linear development to minimize negative
effects on

other resource values.

• Manage access to protect alpine areas.

• Maintain high capability ungulate winter habitat.

• Maintain medium and high quality grizzly bear habitat.

• Maintain caribou habitat.

• Maintain functioning and healthy ecosystems.

• Minimize wildlife habitat fragmentation.

• Maintain opportunities for mineral exploration and development
and allow

for access.

• Maintain fish habitat and water quality for priority fish
species.

• Promote water stewardship to manage for other resources.


