
Occupational Health and Safety Regulation

Workers Compensation Act


Table 5-2: Risk assessment





Risk Level




Description of the workplace




Examples






High risk

Workplaces at which corrosive chemicals or other materials are
used in a manner, concentration and quantity which present a risk
of irreversible tissue damage to the eyes or skin, or of serious
illness resulting from rapid absorption of a toxic substance
through the eyes or skin, or where the work activity presents a
risk of ignition of the clothing.


Maintenance of ammonia refrigeration equipment or chlorine
bleaching or disinfection equipment, handling corrosive materials
such as corrosive cleaning products or chemical reagents where
there is a high risk of skin or eye contact, filling chemical
storage batteries. The following Health Hazard Classes and
Categories in the HPR are included:

(a) skin corrosion (1A), (1B), (1C);

(b) serious eye damage (1).



Moderate risk

Workplaces at which chemicals or other materials are used in a
manner, concentration and quantity which present a risk of
irritation or other reversible harm to the eyes or skin, or of
illness resulting from absorption of a toxic substance through the
eyes or skin.


Spraying automotive paints and finishes, operating solvent
degreasing equipment, handling irritant materials such as cleaning
products or chemical reagents where there is a moderate risk of
skin or eye contact, handling dry-cleaning solvents and spotting
agents. The following Health Hazard Classes and Categories in the
HPR are included:

(a) eye irritation (2A), (2B);

(b) skin irritation (2).



Low risk

Workplaces at which chemicals or other materials are used in a
manner and quantity which present a risk of mild eye or skin
irritation.


Using detergents, silicone-based mold-release agents, some
hair-dressing solutions, rosin-cored solders, welding and
grinding, working in dusty areas.


