
Restricted-Use Property Valuation Regulation

Assessment Act




where


PAV continuing
=

subject to subsection (4), the actual value, determined for the
previous taxation year, of all of the improvements, or parts of
them, that were part of the restricted-use property when the
property was designated for that previous taxation year and that
continue to be part of the designated restricted-use property
for the taxation year;



PAV former
=

the actual value, determined for the previous taxation year, of
all of the improvements, or parts of them, that were part of the
restricted-use property when the property was designated for
that previous taxation year but that are not part of the
designated restricted-use property for the taxation year;



depreciation
=

the amount determined for the taxation year, in accordance with
subsections (2) and (3), in relation to the designated
restricted-use property;



adjustment factor
=

the adjustment factor for the property class in which all of the
improvements, or parts of them, that are part of the designated
restricted-use property for the taxation year are classified for
the taxation year;



new improvement value
=

subject to subsection (4), the actual value, determined in
accordance with the Act, for the taxation year, of all of the
improvements, or parts of them, that are part of the designated
restricted-use property for the taxation year but that were not
part of the restricted-use property when it was designated for
the previous taxation year.


