
Reviewable Projects Regulation

Environmental Assessment Act




Column 1

Project Category


Column 2

New Project


Column 3

Modification of Existing Project









1

Public Highways.









Criteria:


(1)

Subject to subsection (2), a new project consisting of ≥
20 continuous km of paved public highway with ≥ 2 lanes,
if the highway is not alongside and contiguous to an area
of land previously developed for a transmission line,
transmission pipeline, public highway or railway.



(2)

Assessment of a new project under subsection (1) does not
include the dismantling and abandonment phases.









Criteria:


(1)

Subject to subsection (2), modification of an existing
facility that results in the addition of ≥ 2 lanes of
paved public highway to an existing paved public highway
over a continuous distance of ≥ 20 km on land
that is not alongside and contiguous to an area of land
previously developed for a transmission line, transmission
pipeline, public highway or railway.



(2)

Assessment of the modification of an existing project
described in subsection (1) does not include the
dismantling and abandonment phases.











2
Railways.








Criteria:


(1)

Subject to subsection (2), a new railway project that
consists of




(a)

≥ 20 continuous km of developed track, if the railway is
not alongside and contiguous to an area of land previously
developed for a transmission line, transmission pipeline,
public highway or railway, or




(b)

a rail line designed to accommodate high-speed trains with
a design speed of ≥ 200 km/hour.



(2)

Assessment of a new project under subsection (1) does not
include the dismantling and abandonment phases.









Criteria:


(1)

Subject to subsection (2), modification of an existing
project that results in




(a)

the addition of one or more lines of track to an existing
railway over a continuous distance of ≥ 20 km on
land that is not alongside and contiguous to an area of
land previously developed for a transmission line,
transmission pipeline, public highway or railway, or




(b)

a railway designed to accommodate high-speed trains with a
design speed of ≥ 200 km/hour.



(2)

Assessment of the modification of an existing project
described in subsection (1) does not include the
dismantling and abandonment phases.











3

Ferry Terminals.









Criteria:


(1)

Subject to subsection (2), a new ferry terminal project




(a)
that



(i)

serves marine ferry operations, and




(ii)

has an outbound annual vehicle throughput capacity of
≥ 500 000 vehicles, or




(b)
that



(i)

serves either marine or freshwater ferry operations, and




(ii)

entails construction of the project by dredging, filling
or other direct physical disturbance of




(A)

≥ 1 000 m of linear shoreline, or




(B)

≥ 2 ha of foreshore or submerged land, or a combination of
foreshore and submerged land, below the natural boundary
of a water body.



(2)

Assessment of a new project under subsection (1) does not
include the dismantling and abandonment phases.









Criteria:


(1)

Subject to subsections (2) and (3), modification of an
existing project if




(a)

the existing project or the project after modification,
were it a new project, would meet the criteria set out
opposite in Column 2, and




(b)

the modification




(i)

results in an increase in the outbound annual vehicle
throughput capacity of ≥ 35%, or




(ii)

entails dredging, filling or other direct physical
disturbance of




(A)

≥ 1 000 m of linear shoreline, or




(B)

≥ 2 ha of foreshore or submerged land, or a combination of
foreshore and submerged land, below the natural boundary
of a water body.



(2)

Assessment of the modification of an existing project
described in subsection (1) does not include the
dismantling and abandonment phases.



(3)

Periodic maintenance dredging for an existing project is
not reviewable under subsection (1).











4

Marine Port Projects (other than Ferry Terminals).









Criteria:


(1)

Subject to subsection (2), a new marine port project,
other than a ferry terminal, if construction of the
project entails dredging, filling or other direct physical
disturbance of




(a)

≥ 1 000 m of linear shoreline, or




(b)

≥ 2 ha of foreshore or submerged land, or a combination of
foreshore and submerged land, below the natural boundary
of a marine coastline or marine estuary.



(2)

Assessment of a new project under subsection (1) does not
include the dismantling and abandonment phases.









Criteria:


(1)

Subject to subsections (2) and (3), modification of an
existing project, other than a ferry terminal, if




(a)

the existing project or the project after modification, it
they a new project, would meet the criteria set out
opposite in Column 2, and




(b)

the modification results in dredging, filling or other
direct physical disturbance of




(i)

≥ 1 000 m of linear shoreline, or




(ii)

≥ 2 ha of foreshore or submerged land, or a combination of
foreshore and submerged land, below the natural boundary
of a marine coastline or marine estuary.



(2)

Assessment of the modification of an existing project
described in subsection (1) does not include the
dismantling and abandonment phases.











5
Airports.








Criteria:


(1)

Subject to subsection (2), a new airport project that has
a runway ≥ 1 500 m long.



(2)

Assessment of a new project under subsection (1) does not
include the dismantling and abandonment phases.









Criteria:


(1)

Subject to subsection (2), modification of an existing
project that results in




(a)

installing a new runway ≥ 1 500 m long,




(b)

extending an existing runway that is
< 1 500 m long by
≥ 1 500 m, or




(c)

extending an existing runway that is
≥ 1 500 m long by ≥ 500 m.



(2)

Assessment of the modification of an existing project
described in subsection (1) does not include the
dismantling and abandonment phases.






