
Stillwater Pilot Project Regulation

Forest and Range Practices Act




Column 1


Column 2


Column 3





14 (3) and (4)

Failure to submit an amendment to a Stillwater pilot forest
stewardship plan if required

5 000


20

Failure to carry out required assessments where required before
the submission of an application for a cutting permit

10 000


28 (2)

Harvesting within a community watershed if a terrain stability
assessment indicates that the area is subject to a high likelihood
of landslides.

50 000


28 (3)

Clearcutting within a community watershed if a terrain stability
field assessment indicates the area is subject to a moderate
likelihood of landslides.

50 000


28 (4)

Clearcutting an area outside a community watershed if terrain
stability field assessment indicates the area is subject to a high
likelihood of landslides.

50 000


28 (5)

Constructing an excavated or bladed trail outside a community
watershed if the terrain stability field assessment indicates the
area was subject to a high likelihood of landslides.

50 000


28 (6)

Constructing an excavated or bladed trail outside a community
watershed if the terrain stability field assessment indicates the
area is subject to a moderate likelihood of landslides.

50 000


28 (7)

Yarding or skidding through or over a stream when prohibited

5 000


31

Failure to carry out forest practices in a manner consistent with
the Stillwater pilot forest stewardship plan and any field
variances.

50 000


33 (6)

Improperly closing a road or restricting its use.

10 000


33 (6)

Improperly removing a vehicle or animal from the road.

2 000


33 (7)

Improperly requiring payment from a person for the non-industrial
use of the road.

2 000


34 (1) (a)

Failing to maintain a road for the required time.

50 000


34 (2)

Failing to maintain a road to a required level.

50 000


59

Failure to comply with the targets and strategies established in a
Stillwater pilot forest stewardship plan for the forest
stewardship zones

50 000


61 (2) (a)

Failure to comply with the measurable targets established under a
Stillwater pilot forest stewardship plan for soil

50 000


61 (2) (b)

Failure to comply with the measurable targets established under a
Stillwater pilot forest stewardship plan for water

50 000


61 (2) (c)

Failure to comply with the measurable targets established under a
Stillwater pilot forest stewardship plan for biological diversity

50 000


61 (2) (d)

Failure to comply with the measurable targets established under a
Stillwater pilot forest stewardship plan for fish and wildlife

50 000


61 (2) (e)

Failure to comply with the measurable targets established under a
Stillwater pilot forest stewardship plan for recreation

50 000


61 (2) (f)

Failure to comply with the measurable targets established under a
Stillwater pilot forest stewardship plan for cultural heritage

50 000


61 (2) (g)

Failure to comply with the measurable targets established under a
Stillwater pilot forest stewardship plan for forest health

50 000


61 (2) (h)

Failure to comply with the measurable targets established under a
Stillwater pilot forest stewardship plan for timber

50 000


62

Failure to comply with the requirements established in a
Stillwater pilot forest stewardship plan for road activities

50 000

