
Supreme Court Civil Rules

Court Rules Act



Item
Description
Units







Instructions and investigations



1

Correspondence, conferences, instructions, investigations or
negotiations by a party until the start of the proceeding, for
which provision is not made elsewhere in this tariff


Minimum

Maximum


1

10



2

Correspondence, conferences, instructions, investigations or
negotiations by a party after the start of the proceeding to the
completion of the trial or hearing, for which provision is not
made elsewhere in this tariff


Minimum

Maximum


1

30



3

Correspondence, conferences, instructions, investigations or
negotiations by a party after the trial or hearing to enforce any
final order obtained in that trial or hearing, for which provision
is not made elsewhere in this tariff


Minimum

Maximum


1

10



4

Instructions to an agent to appear at a trial, hearing,
application, examination, reference, inquiry, assessment, or other
analogous proceeding, if necessary or proper, and if held more
than 40 km from the place where the instructing lawyer carries on
business


1


5

Process for obtaining a consent case plan order


Minimum

Maximum


1

10




Court documents



6

All process, for which provision is not made elsewhere in this
tariff, for commencing and prosecuting a proceeding


Minimum

Maximum


1

10



7

All process, for which provision is not made elsewhere in this
tariff, for defending a proceeding, and for commencing and
prosecuting a counterclaim


Minimum

Maximum


1

10



8

All process for which provision is not made elsewhere in this
tariff for commencing and prosecuting or defending a third party
proceeding


Minimum

Maximum


1

10



9

Response to counterclaim and, if necessary, reply


Minimum

Maximum


1

10




Discovery



10

Process for obtaining discovery and inspection of documents

(a) 1 to 999 documents


(b) 1 000 to 5 000 documents


(c) over 5 000 documents



(a)  Minimum

Maximum

(b)  Minimum

Maximum

(c)  Minimum

Maximum



1

10

10

20

10

30



11

Process for giving discovery and inspection of documents

(a) 1 to 999 documents


(b) 1 000 to 5 000 documents


(c) over 5 000 documents



(a)  Minimum

Maximum

(b)  Minimum

Maximum

(c)  Minimum

Maximum



1

10

10

20

10

30



12

Process for serving interrogatories


Minimum

Maximum


1

10



13

Process for answering interrogatories


Minimum

Maximum


1

10



14

Process for serving notices to admit


Minimum

Maximum


1

5



15

Process for making admission of facts


Minimum

Maximum


1

10



16

Process for preparation of accounts, statement of property or
financial information if required by enactment or by order of
court


Minimum

Maximum


1

5




Expert Evidence and Witnesses



17

All process and correspondence associated with retaining and
consulting all experts for the purposes of obtaining opinions for
use in the proceeding


Minimum

Maximum


1

10



18

All process and correspondence associated with contacting,
interviewing and issuing subpoenas to all witnesses


Minimum

Maximum


1

10




Examinations



19

Preparation for examination of a person coming under Item 20 for
each day of attendance

(a) by party conducting examination

(b) by party being examined




4

3



20

Attendance on examination of a person for discovery, on affidavit,
on a subpoena to debtor, or in aid of execution, or of a person
before trial under Rule 7-5 or 7-8, or any other analogous
proceeding, for each day

(a) by party conducting examination

(b) by party being examined




8

5




Applications, Hearings and Conferences



21

Preparation for an application or other matter referred to in Item
22, for each day of hearing if hearing begun

(a) if unopposed

(b) if opposed




2

3



22

Application, other than an application referred to in Item 23 or
27, for each day

(a) if unopposed

(b) if opposed




4

5



23

Application by requisition or by written submission


Minimum

Maximum


1

5



24

Preparation for a hearing referred to in Item 25, for each day of
hearing


3


25

Reference to, or inquiry, assessment, accounting or hearing
before, or on appeal from, an associate judge, registrar or
special referee, with or without witnesses and whether before or
after judgment, for each day


6


26

Preparation for an application or other matter referred to in Item
27, for each day of hearing

(a) if unopposed

(b) if opposed




4

5



27

Hearing of proceeding, including petition, special case,
proceeding on a point of law, stated case, interpleader or any
other analogous proceeding, and applications for judgment under
Rule 7-7 (6), 9-6 or 9-7, for each day

(a) if unopposed

(b) if opposed





6

10



28

Preparation for a hearing referred to in Item 22 (b), 25 or 27
(b), which hearing was initially contested but for which no
attendance was required as a result of an agreement reached as to
the issues that would have been the subject of the hearing

(a) for a hearing referred to in Item 22 (b)

(b) for a hearing referred to in Item 25

(c) for a hearing referred to in Item 27 (b)




2

2

4



29

Preparation for attendance referred to in Item 30, for each day of
attendance


2


30

Attendance before a registrar to settle an order or to assess
costs, for each day


4


31

Preparation for attendance referred to in Item 32, for each day of
attendance


Minimum

Maximum


1

3



32

Attendance at a settlement conference, case planning conference or
trial management conference


Minimum

Maximum


1

5




Public Guardian and Trustee



33

All process for obtaining the comments and recommendations of the
Public Guardian and Trustee


Minimum

Maximum


1

10




Trial



34

Preparation for trial, if proceeding set down for each day of
trial


5


35

Attendance at trial of proceeding or of an issue in a proceeding,
for each day




10



36
Written argument

Minimum

Maximum


1

10



37

Attendance at the court for trial or hearing if party is ready to
proceed and when trial or hearing not started


3


38

Attendance to speak to trial or hearing list


1



Attendance at Registry



39

Process for payment into or out of court


1


40

Process for setting down proceeding for trial


1


41

Process relating to entry of an order or a certificate of costs
when Item 30 or 44 does not apply


1


42

All process, for which provision is not made elsewhere in this
tariff, relating to execution on or enforcement of an order,
exclusive of any application to the court


1



Miscellaneous



43

Conduct of sale if property sold by order of court


Minimum

Maximum


1

10



44

Negotiations, including mediation, and process for settlement,
discontinuance, or dismissal by consent of any proceeding if
settled, discontinued, or dismissed by consent as a result of the
negotiations


5


45
Attendance at mediation, per day

5


46

Preparation for a mediation, for each day of attendance


3


47

Preparation for a mediation if the mediation is not held due to a
reason other than the party's refusal, failure or neglect to
attend


3


48

Travel by a lawyer to attend at any trial, hearing, application,
examination, reference, inquiry, assessment, or other analogous
proceeding if held more than 40 km from the place where the lawyer
carries on business, for each day on which the lawyer travels


2




In addition, reasonable travelling and subsistence expenses are to
be allowed as a disbursement




